Home of Boston's largest radio newsroom now did you point seven to ... you might point one WB which groups Brewster and streaming up and you'll be ... dot org W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR News station
At four hours GMT welcome to the news or him from the b._b._c. World Service I'm Alex roots and President Trump's nominee for the U.S Supreme Court expresses regret for things he said to set us is one defending himself against claims of sexual assault Republicans say has nothing to be ashamed of
Relatively American people under ... are innocent until proven guilty
And that was a tea is switched back home in parts of the Indonesian island devastated by an earthquake and tsunami candidates in Brazil's presidential election make final appeals for votes live on TV the London offs gallery issuing bargain Swiss passports
You surrender twenty euro no pounds accepted to the front desk she will take your Polaroid picture show hen you the application forms
And you know one of the biggest publishes a viral videos on the Internet pools in the administration says this is the b._b._c. World Service
Hello I'm Debbie rests with the b._b._c. news President Trump's nominee for the U.S Supreme Court Brett Kavanaugh has acknowledged that some of his testimony to senators last week was to the national
In a newspaper article he said his legislation frustration with well he could run for and vicious allegations of sexual misconduct at least three hundred people were arrested during noisy anti Kevin protests in Washington on Thursday as our correspondent ... reports [noise]
The Senate's like America is divided on protesters have been doing all they can be heard by the small harmful politicians who still deciding whether they will vote for Brett Kavanaugh
In an article for the wall Street Journal judge Kavanaugh has no admitted I might have been too emotional at times I knew that my two is sharp and I said a few things I should have said
The protests um the politically charged debate will continue but a final vote on whether Brett Kavanaugh shooter the seats on America's highest court noise seems likely this weekend
The week after a devastating earthquake and tsunami hits the Indonesian island of silly lazy palate has been restored and some ... and the badly affected city of policy survive is beginning to gain access to basic supplies that just drinking water
Moving fourteen hundred people a consent to have died not the type two is expected to rise some communities are still cut off by landslides and damaged roads that lead to Judy he's from the charity World Vision describes some of the difficulties faced by aid agencies
The biggest challenge so far is also a far from other parts of Asia and health or any of the area and also we have difficulty of do a very caught in the ... about
Findings in near ...
Says in the electric carmaker Tesla has dipped by two percent tough but it's ... ... us financial regulators on Twitter
Days off the settling fruit charges brought against him by the securities and Exchange Commission this mosque cool the agency the shorts and an enrichment commission this democracy is often condemned short says he bet against the company's success
Who useful and the president of us if you'd you Maury has appeal to the government and the court's not to send him back to prison saying the move would kill him he made to play in a video in which he appeared lying in a hospital bed and I was off the police had carried out an arrest warrant for these you know
If I returned to prison my heart remote supported in this week and go through the same thing don't sentence me to death
On Wednesday atop judge and now the presidential pot and granted him his defeat you Maury releasing him from the twenty five year prison sentence so human rights abuses this decision where he's eighty ... less than half of his sentence well nice from the BBC
China has your bus claims by the U.S vice president Mike Pence that it's meddling in American politics just dumped on will come from being reelected
The Chinese foreign ministry called the accusations slanderous is that the country was committed to working with the U.S based on mutual respect that depends had said that China was trying to influence us businesses academia and state and local officials
Prosecutors in South Korea are demanding a twenty year prison sentence for the country's former president Lee Myung bak
His trial on charges of bribery and abuse of power is due to end shortly
... he was president for five years until twenty said teen is accused of accepting bribes ... was more than ten million dollars the prosecution says he undermined South Korea's constitution and deceived the people he's pleaded not guilty for
Life has been convicted of or challenged with criminal offenses is that she's in the United states say that when the headlines may contribute to high temperatures they found that the headlines interfere with wind patterns causing the anti round them he counts he's really in a day
The scientists at Harvard University safe wind power provided all the U. S. is energy it could cause a nationwide ... to ... degrees Celsius well stressing the wind is far better than coal and gas in the long run their course into the benefits of stopping the burning of fossil fuels would struggle to compensate for the woman from touch on for decades to come
Through such as one policy makers to choose other types of renewable energy generation
And especially ... which was found to have a tenth of the impact on warming compared with wind turbines
... skin send about the prevalence of eating these ten fake news has X. Frank ... tentative expression
It conditions in Richmond in St slang which have to pay the ten in from ... in front of the is it still sanction these in the short appointment to read in folks BBC News
You're listening to the news are among the b._b._c. World Service with me ... first to Washington where the Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh has expressed regret about some of the things he said during last week's Senate hearing as a sexual misconduct allegations
He made the comments in an article in the wall Street Journal this comes off the U.S Senate says it'd be inspiring over the FBI reports into the sexual misconduct claims against judge Kavanaugh
Democrats say that the only copy of the report which exists was incomplete
While Republicans contend that they did not support the accusations speaking on the Senate floor of the Republican majority leader Senator Mitch McConnell slammed the protests and other efforts to oppose judge Kavanaugh's confirmation he urged his colleagues not to be cowed
A loss to stand up to the other thing we owe it to the American people not to be intimidated by their stock well to the American people to underscore that you're innocent
Until proven guilty it's a set of its own trial here in Misrata what kind of limited role where some of the bubble and we'd be scared all is a naval rampaging all coughing members at airports come into their homes
Judge Kavanaugh passionately denies all allegations against him how correspondents in Washington ... began by telling me more about the article
He's been writing for the wall Street Journal and he says that he was subjected to Rome full an sometimes vicious allegations but he has also been reflecting on how he spoke to the Senate Judiciary committee last week
He says in this article I might have been too emotional at times I knew the whites who was shot and I said a few things I should note of sad and I think a lot of that is to do with this particular attacks on the Democrats you one stage accused of a search and destroy mission
And further on in the article he says that he favors new political party Michigan's or policy and recognizes that a good judge must be an umpire a neutral on impartial arbiters her
But you do get the sense that this article is being published as a political fight continues up to Capitol really over this question of whether or not he should be confirmed as the Supreme Court justice
And it's like there's been another article which is being published
This evening by the Washington Post and it's from some of Brett Kavanaugh's former drinking buddies
They say that they drank with him a jail and they say specifically
Under oath that he's idea that he never drink to the point of forgetting what he was doing is not true and they have been very critical of it and it ... Lovings in Lynn bricks and Elizabeth Swisher say specifically that they feel it's their duty to speak
And cruelty them specifically they say that Brett belong to a you'll senior secret society coach treats encourage they say we believe the breath neither tells the former northern both these laws are so is he hadn't been dry or not
It's a good question at this stage Republicans seem to be increasingly confident but the question will come on to whether or not they actually have the hump full of senators who may sway one way or another
Fundamentally on their side the indications are this stage the Republicans will vote to gather that this will be a divide on party lines
But of course there are still some times ago indeed thirty hours of debate before the Senate itself will vote in this massacre and who knows what will happen not time there is one of the things you mentioned there is one senator he's going to be walking his doctor do on the island Saturday whenever this vote might happen I could also affect the numbers
Now a week since the devastating earthquake ... hit the Indonesian island of pseudo icy moves and fourteen hundred people or consumptive died but the title is expected to rise significantly as more part is recovered
To use the pressure of the Bangladesh government is building temporary combination for about one hundred thousand refugees on fashion show I learned a correspondent yoga ... has been talking to refugees are ... [noise]
It's been more than ... hundreds of thousands of people from there to hang it community fled violence in Myanmar and came to neighboring bumblebees bizarre they were sheltered in makeshift camps that were built by the bumblebee she government and aid agencies [noise]
In front of me looks almost like a semi permanent settlement that it's been called out of the hill that used to be here
Coming had the road that we were driving on was a wide mud rode along side that was a street market where that was shops selling everything from
Little knickknack like had banned I pretty much any everyday item that people would need [noise] but the camps and now the bus with conversations about the ... government's decision to move some refugees to punch our island in the bay of going to do that by new
Sits outside bamboo hot stacking up would she's got to cook food [noise]
She's worried about being displaced again ... I left everything behind in Myanmar
My house like Africa and faced a lot of hardship now with just about second down and they're talking about moving on to that island I'm really scared I don't want to go that
Far from Lucas in Cox's Bazar there's growing resentment about the influx of refugees knowledge of and that is a vegetable seller at a street tied market he tells me he wants to hang it to be sent away from his town
Hall nah guy a guy who would I Do I have become a minority in our own land and the rangers have become the new 'cause there'll be willing to work for you so that they will be all the jobs [noise]
Back in the can play football around the world [noise]
Like the people here about taking up the pieces and I was shocked by unimaginable quota [noise]
Going back home is a distance dream
To fall there were no details about when the refugees might have to move to rush in charge of who might have to go in a lifelong friends and [noise]
It's just one more thing and [noise]
You'll get to them I ever since March T. V. scholar I became president to Peru earlier this year he's been trying to push through onto corruption measures on Thursday
Congress approved a referendum on a raft of political and judicial reforms introduced by the new government are America's ... is kind of disappeared
For Twenty years ... has been trying to rebuild its democracy ever since the autocratic governments of our best to freeze your Maury and countless politicians and presidents are being jailed for corruption now the last full was paid to the public would just get back in March
And he resigned because he was in ... before he was impeached drawn on corruption charges on his vice president marching Scott has taken over and he's sworn to push through anti corruption reforms
And against all odds he seems to manage this he's forced the opposition controlled Congress to approve
Bonding private financing for political campaigns
An end to the reelection of ah of lawmakers and reforming the way judges are employed these three sections
Of legislation which he's also got them to agree to a popular referendum on these reforms which will take place now in December so important changes but there have been anti corruption demonstrations taking place Russia across Latin America
That's right you cannot see Peru without that context
But we also had huge demonstrations against the political elite over the last few months and since ... since he resigned local media
Published a stream of phone conversations at the picture show judges trading favors businessmen and lawmakers and the attorney general
Ukrainian parliament is approved legislation cementing Ukrainian as the country's official language critics say it could weaken the status of ethnic minority languages including Russian this report from Europe regional editor my son does
This new law would replace an earlier version struck down in February by the constitutional calls it could mean ending the rights of ethnic minorities to use their mother tongue as a second official language in areas where they make up at least ten percent of the population Russian is widely spoken in Ukraine and has a first language for millions
International guardians of democratic standards except the drive to consolidate the Ukrainian language but there are alarmed attempts to downgrade rushing in the public sphere
Last month the city council and the west and said you live close to by law banning the screening of Russian films until Russia ended its occupation of Ukraine is because we'll put it
Back to his any of the high commission on national minorities of the organization for security and cooperation in Europe has spoken to counselors in ... he's been assured that the rule would have little effect on the city's Russian speakers but he worries about the knock on effects of the conflict with Russia
This is encouraging most are suddenly
Uh that excuse that turned these positions may create these short fictional within
... is concerned that anti Russian rhetoric could worse than in the run up the presidential in parliamentary elections early next year
Professor ... wrote a is an independent external advisor to the council of Europe he's contributed to several reports and Ukraine she says Ukraine's multi ethnic balance could be upset that
Danger is that you
See all Russian communities or all individuals speaking Russian as one could hit a unity that possibly is disloyal to the Ukrainian State I think this is the big danger
Russia set the template for years ago when it annexed Crimea and close schools teaching in Ukrainian responding in time is unlikely to for Ukraine's ambitions to join the west which would suit Russia very well
My son does this is the b._b._c. World Service live from London Debby has some other stories from our news desk
Meeting sponsors of one of the world's top football as Christie on him and now they have voiced consent and rape allegations made against him Nike described the claims by an American women Katherine my yoga as disturbing because ... has strongly denied wrongdoing
And mine has died after being bitten by the snake in Australia and he said the man had just pulled up a fishing net of the case of the news in ... when he was bitten he snakes a highly venomous but because of the limited contact with humans might sound when you see the math
And sold found in a Swedish lake ... on a family holiday is now believed to be a Fifteen hundred year old Viking romantic ... eight ... lake in the south of the country this road is now the candidates that museum
Losses of some of the Britain's top fashion retailers coming under pressure to reduce the environmental and social impact to sneak clothes and shoes they sell ... members of parliament said the clothing industry fuels climate change spreads Mike ... into the oceans
And fills up landfills sides this report from our environment analyst Raj a hundred in
Fashion is with twenty eight billion times a year to the u._k. economy then the say there is a fundamental problem with an industry that relies on people throwing away good clothes because there last year China
They say British ... by ... votes than any nation in Europe but around eighty percent of them end up in landfills it's now clear they say that the seas are being contaminated with synthetic fibers that come out in the wash
The MPs wanted to hear from fashion bosses how they plan to maintain profits last also touching pollution encouraging recycling and increasing the ... ability of clothes and shoes
A spokesman for the retailers said they were working to reduce harmful emissions that accepted that moon needed to be done several retailers have been nuts into action recently since the uproar over the revelation that debris was actually burning it unsold clues
Roger how urban the main news this out President Trump's Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh has admitted that some of his testimony to senators last week was to shop and too emotional and the billionaire bouts of Tesla lost his tool did us financial regulators you're listening to the newsroom thanks for your time
[noise]
Distribution of the b._b._c. World Service in the U.S has made possible by American public media producer and distributor of award winning public radio contact [noise]
Eight PM American public meeting with support from the financial services for him of Raymond James offering personalized wealth management advice capital markets expertise with a commitment to putting clients financial means first more Raymond James dot com
[noise]
From Boston University this is not the point nine WVU our bathrooms NPR
News station [noise]
With live streaming W. B. U. R. dot org
Two weeks later we were called to the sheriff's department
The autopsy report with back and they told us that the medical examiner had well defined homicide and the death was caused by six the Asian and that was probably the most dramatic and traumatic moment in all this was realizing he had been killed from
Other time equals death did spark a debate in the U.S about police interactions with people with disabilities but the deaths keep on coming

For ... or ... to look into the case of a man who was confronted by police in front of his or her
Hands free to see if he was carrying a weapon actually it was a piece of the ... but they shouted instructions for profit and he didn't in the end of that confrontation the man
Was shot and killed problem was he never heard the instructions for the police were giving him as a war neighbors around was shouting at the police couldn't hear those instructions Rousseff [noise]
The story which is [noise]
Slowly issues to deal with this man is just
How we say it's unclear whether the officers involved heard what the witnesses were yelling
Myself and my daughter were actually screaming at him you know that he was staff now he can hear anything
They both discharge their weapons after Sanchez didn't respond to verbal commands
Police say they went to the home of ... because they suspected his father had been involved in a hit and run incident was someone was injured
Surveillance footage from the house across the street from my deals shows that at one point he did run towards officers but then walked away again holding a pipe moments later shown [noise] he was killed [noise]

I came to the window after the shots were fired
And I lucked out and seeing
The young man and the officer
Who vote was clear speaking to neighbors like Regina Smith was the ... century is as well as being death will so how'd the learning difficulties
I just realized his hand
And I was like what could have done
Kind of a person was he was a special needs child and have a staff and have a threat to him and
You know as an ... have a like a child
The question many had was why he was holding a piece of pipe where we met the navy by Kevin ... who encouraged him to carry it
You see me going up and down the streets this kid can one morning and came by the house in ... when you smile
For ... years for them to carry the state and ... why would you kind of say
You go in the ... the maintenance dogs scare me
As in all the cases we've heard about the been no prosecutions of the officers involved we spoke to the Oklahoma City police chief William city you said the offices killed ... Sanchez in self defense
Nobody disputes that they were yelling that he was death nobody disputes that that some of them were yelling he was death civil war yelling he can't you know he doesn't understand he doesn't understand well that could mean he doesn't understand English but he understood who they were
You know that's why we were uniforms
He may have known to police officers but if if he was definitely have learning disabilities he may not know how to interact it's our job to be able to respond to situations
In a manner which creates the best possible outcome you can't look at that situation and saying this was the best possible outcome under the circumstances of that moment with what they had to work with there was the best possible outcome

Already this year right across the U.S at least a hundred and thirty people with a range of disabilities physical mental and intellectual a confirmed to have been killed by police officers in hundreds more cases it was never determine what's the person killed had a disability a tool
But what if the officers involved in taking the life of someone with a disability
And brought her heart for nine hundred that
Thing in Oklahoma City we rode with sergeant ... as you went to patrol you reveal too was a moment Fifteen Years ago the changed his life
I was involved in this critical event where I could just add a subjective is armed with a knife outside of school and um
I was forced into a situation where I didn't have any other choice but to to shoot and kill the individual and we're outside of school shootings armed with a very large nine she wasn't responding to my instructions on direction and
After the incident was over I was able to be told that she had a history of mental illness I didn't know that at the time I didn't understand what was going on at the time
For the time you you you felt you had no choice to to feel differently about that even
Now I don't feel differently about it now
Outside of that event outside of the pressure cooker outside of those milliseconds of the officer has to make a decision many people have the benefit of of looking back at that with ... minutes if not hours or ... days to contemplate whether they would have done
And then they charge the officer because they didn't do the thing that I Would have done
So why does it happens so often with so many people with disabilities being killed by the police well firstly old police here are goes on and they face members of the public who want to the tourist sleep in places like Chicago's south side
When we talk about police killings in America the biggest stories of the last couple of years the full surround is always the ... race riots just because we're talking about disability that doesn't mean the race over the falls flat how they do a lot of other cases we've looked that way people with disabilities having children interactions with it
Because of the highest police presence in those areas the highest essential for violence but also according to this issue
For a long time to choose a relief when they come into those areas [noise]

South side Chicago is predominantly African American as challenges with inequality and crime
And is one of the most heavily policed areas in the u._s. it's seen many instances where people with disabilities have died and interactions with offices the complaint from many that is the police too often command and control shouting commands and physically dominating
Especially when someone doesn't immediately comply
And that can include the use of lethal force the problem is because we've already heard some people just can't comply
[noise]
Kansas Coleman who has self has cerebral palsy works as a community organizer with young people who have autism schizophrenia and learning in time and she sees a clear reason why so many maybe injured or killed in interactions with offices
If they knew encounter police then it's a scary situation um they don't know this price and they never seen it was a spy someone with a guy and ah or in the little like why are these lies slashing beans loud sounds what are all these things
May force of control and body like I have to end the trolley is often I used to that then I'm going to respond in a way that would look as if I'm being defiant age
Larry ... who watched his son get repeatedly taste on the horrific police body can footage in nearby Milwaukee can identify with all of that
There's times when you know you couldn't touch Adam he got really withdrawn or he'd get
Cited you know what I mean so always knew when I dealt with cameras stayed back from them and let him talk you know what I mean and if I went in there and
Just use my authority as far as I'm your father this this is just that and we're
Not rich from El told me his son Adam often had delusions and who is the nation's he feels when they bust into his apartment and confronted him in his own shower the police could not have done a worse job of handling that
They escalated and at the point is if Adam was going to one of the emotional things is that when the police came in and he looked at 'em
He might have not thought that was them and buy them calling them by the different name he was thinking does have a real
After weeks of trying we finally managed to speak on the phone at least to the district attorney John Chisholm who'd ruled Adam did not die as a result the actions of the officers who teased him numerous times
They're not doing this because they wanted to harm Adam ... it's the exact opposite right there but it looked like it doesn't but it does their their their expressly tempt any number of times is that they were there to help them but they wanted to get him out of that
Kept saying Joyce has he has they tasted
Right right because they had to get them under control so that they could get them to some medical attention
You were saying that it was not unreasonable to they taste and
That is correct not not based on their training and the decision that they have to make is is what's the appropriate means to get him under control so they can get him the medical attention at that point in time
The studio or America's editor cans of beer began by telling me about
On their own mind smart so much the curtain
From Boston University you're listening to your point nine WB you weren't right from Boston home of Boston's largest radio newsroom as much as you point seven something you'd be a to Z bury your point one or W. B. which Brewster and streaming at W. B. U. R. dot org W. B. U. R. Boston is NPR News station

Took the law professor who says you should not be [noise] without lights in Geneva where our correspondent will give us the latest on the rescue efforts after last week's deadly ... also out fridge in the U.S of a police cheaper to people with disabilities
Is in a bath tub no threat is already here copyright case I'm Fifteen times he's laying in a tough dying
Matt up to several western countries clue that Russia or allegedly orchestrating cyberattacks who got the Russian reaction sports business all lined up for you for distribution of music [noise]

Hello I'm Debbie us it's the b._b._c. news
Helicopters hugely destructive ask like it's the nominee hits the Indonesian island just to see the lazy ... has been the stewardess sounds jumpsuit things ... and it was to take your city policy survive is the beginning to receive basic supplies
Would at fourteen hundred people a consent have died from Ali he's the
Families are still visiting more trees in the hope of finding loved ones don't deserve still treating patients in open I was I'm taking still crunch through mountains of rubble in the grim such football teams or this will not stop soon but Paul it stops
I called some shops and banks have reopened on one big mobile phone network is backup rescue workers are pushing into cutoff areas when many say they survive on any friends but many rights are being twisted outs of recognition I'm so lots of areas uh still impossible to reach
President Trump's nominee for the U.S Supreme Court Brett Kavanaugh has acknowledge that some of his testimony to senators last week was too emotional
In a newspaper article he said he was before the Senate Judiciary committee affected frustration with what he called wrongful and vicious allegations of sexual misconduct and support from Nick Bryant [noise]
Call him I had brought feeding ever more like a clash between the divergence America's hundreds were detained during protests on Capitol Hill so much
Is at stake and rising in the wall Street Journal a highly unusual move for a Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh said he must have been too emotional during his testimony last week his time was shop you'd miss it and he said a few things you shouldn't of
Life is a day there'll be vaudeville procedural vote to decide whether his nomination will progress to a final Senate vote for the weekend
China has your boss claims by the U.S vice president Mike Pence that it's meddling in American politics to stop Donald Trump from being re elected in a statement to the Chinese foreign ministry called the accusations slanderous it said the country was committed to working with the U.S based on mutual respect
Is that just in the usa that wind turbines may contribute to higher temperatures they found that the headlines interfere with wind patterns causing that around them to ... he's ...
The scientists at Harvard University say wind power provided older us energy it could cause a ... to ... degrees Celsius well stressing the wind is far better than coal and gas in the long run because some of the benefits of stopping the burning of fossil fuels would struggle to compensate for the woman from top on for decades to come
Through such as one policy makers to choose other types of renewable energy generation
Especially soda which is found to have a tenth of the impact on woman compared with wind turbines
This is the world news from the BBC

Shares in the electric carmaker Tesla has decreased by ... percent outfits ... mosque
That ... us financial regulators on Twitter days off the settling fraud charges against him by the securities and Exchange Commission Mr mosque cool the agency the short seller enrichment commission he said it was doing incredible work this mosque is often condemned short says he's back against the company's success
Prosecuted in South Korea are demanding a twenty year prison sentence for the country's former president Lee Myung bak
His trial on charges of bribery and abuse this town is due to ensure the Mr ... who is president for five years until twenty Thirteen is accused of accepting bribes with more than ten million dollars he ceded not guilty or full form a South Korean presidents who is in a life
Has been convicted of challenged with criminal offenses
Heating sponsors of one of the world's top football is Chrissy on him and all of them have voiced concern over the rape allegations made against him Nike described the claims by an American woman Katherine my yoga as disturbing
And other sponsored the Portuguese dot E. A. sports that it was closely monitoring the situation with the honor of and now they has strongly denied wrongdoing
And sold found in the Swedish lake by gun on family holiday is now believed to be a Fifteen hundred year old Viking rhetoric ... cues eight fool the sauce and the will to in the southern region of young shifting gas by the house
The pre Viking Air is sold was initially thought to be a thousand years old but experts now believe it dates back to the ... century the discovery was made possible things to the summer's war whether that adrenaline which ... to to food to extremely low levels
A colonel Sanders who found the weapons passed it to her father who initially saw the rusted Metsu was in fact an unusual state called bronze but ... says the museum and listen to Sweden say the suit is in fact incredibly well preserved
[noise]
Thank you very much for that everybody welcome to need that with that I can see Jack and me Jamestown them
A very good morning to the next off all go to Russia and Indonesia and we have an extraordinary report about why so many disabled Americans of victims of violence
Yeah if you go to view on that would eat anything else you've hit on the program to send us affects the number is ... Seventy seven eighty six twenty fifty five [noise]
When it started as one of the political route over President Trump's Supreme Court nominee Brett cover noise coming ... head of votes on these the religion is imminent or no democratic senator see an FBI report into the dishes of sexual misconduct against him is incomplete was discovered a definitive so for the logical than American used
In the last few out hundreds of people being arrested as they protested against was to come out of the Supreme Court
And those against the nominee and his ... to be making their feelings known in other ways to
We can talk to Samantha bucking um she's a clinical professor of law and direct to the juvenile justice clinics to law school in Los Angeles she's also one of the stigma trees were less in the New York times for more than two thousand professors objective to Brett Kavanaugh will be confirmed to the Supreme Court
Was your motivation in signing this left to
Thank you so much for asking [laughter]
I was driven to sign a letter because of valuing the profession of law and the legitimacy of the Supreme Court I was a deeply disturbed by Mr Kavanaugh's behavior during a the confirmation hearings and will likely to get away
[noise] uh he behaves in such a way that was really unprofessional and let me be very that said he interrupted several of the senators who were asking him questions he didn't answer questions directly and he at one point even
Attacked US Senator who had to ask a question
Senator club which are
Asking a question about his drinking and he wound up turning that question back around on her without answering it and that was just something that was
Really ... eyed and it wasn't a straightforward response at the very least he was on cooperative and unprofessional during his questioning and if I were to behave that way in court
I have every expectation that I Would be sanctioned
[noise] he has written an article in which she has acknowledged some of those points he signed essentially it was a little too emotional his tone much being to shop or things he shouldn't have said is that's enough to change your mind
It's not obviously it was a very stressful time for him whether you believe that he felt it Dr Ford or you believe that he did not assault Dr Ford or doesn't remember assaulting Dr Ford obviously it was a very stressful time but we need someone who is going to sit on the Supreme Court
Who is not just fair and impartial when he got his best we need someone who is able to be dignified fair and impartial even when the going gets rough
Need someone who's going to have the respect of the American people so that he can decide or she can decide on matters of controversy and be the ultimate arbiter on what the constitution says about the law in the United states America
This idea of impartiality is clearly an ideal is really very important but at the same time it's also very clear the judges who really almost Supreme Court how strong views Democrat Republican because that's why those policies fought so hard to get ... on the Supreme Court
Um food prices are currently climbing double digits inside the Philippines tobacco and alcohol leading the way they're up by some twin one point eight percent of this means that those games that are coming through a crowding out I'm
A relatively modest or even a slight declines in other areas such as energy and housing costs but it's called people extremely worried because
Food is a key ... a key portion of the spending all households especially the lower the incomes are in the Philippines or large number of medium and lower income households and that that causes problems also causes problems for everyone else because the central bank to the Philippines is like the rain vigilance
We get higher interest rate rises that's going to hurt people as well
[noise] it it ... thank you very much indeed for that
Now Russia has wasted no time and dismissing allegations from Britain and the Netherlands in the United states that it was involved in all cars striking a number of cyber attacks around the world us Justice Department is charged seven Russian agents with plus thing to hack targets including the ... in the world anti Doping Agency
Let's get some reaction from Russia and speech our Moscow correspondent ... et cetera thank you for speaking to us and just remind us if you would have some of the allegations
While the allegations are coming from three sides against Russia has said from the Netherlands for the u._k. and for the U.S and what they amounts to is they are huge a case against Russia that it's being involved in cyber attacks on many fronts
Or in particular in the Hague and it was a huge wealth of evidence presented all staff and attempt to attack the uh to hack
The wife ... system of the organization or for the prevention of chemical weapons and that was a an an as an attack for which for a Russian agents legit agents of military intelligence were expelled from the country because they were traveling
On ... and I said passports now as you said Russia's response has been to dismiss all the claims and that's been a pretty brown dismissal on all sides sites or the the foreign minister half example is accusing the west of a stage manage propaganda campaign against Moscow
And it saying that the west as paranoid as his keys in Russia is accusing the west of buying mania and saying that anyone with
A mobile phone is now being accused of being spies are really playing down or the the case against Russia and on the plane down particularly the evidence so that we know for a fact that some of the evidence for example presented in the Hague
If that attempt to hack a we know that the two of them and we can't tolerate and stuff to them and I'll sit in the links to a military sites here in Moscow
And also the taxi receipt that was presented as evidence one of the men took a taxi from a minute ... to the apple a couple of days ahead of the attack I've called the taxi company they've told me that is a genuine receipts it was one of the drivers they made that ...
... and there is no no reason to doubt the authenticity of not receipts suggests a quite a quite extraordinary a seal the level of work by these Russian Spies
And the idea of a slump the uh the sloppy work from the spies I mean we like to play the Russians are generally fairly proud of their intelligence services are they getting a sense is there a feeling that maybe a ... I haven't been up to the their usual standards
Well not if you want state media nuts if you ... if you read the programming impressive I really am playing down the evidence and very very heavily into saying and all of us has built on a few photos in a taxi
Receipts and sort of there's a lot of Leicester in the state media
Are and talking about they say paranoia and on the Russian campaigns and all the like but if you read social media yes that's been a lot of mockery of 'em out of the intelligence agencies have to take any this one agency agency military intelligence GI you
Are a lot of joking and and and a sort of school and ready for that I Would say it is having an impact that politically or the question is bigger I think in broad I mean for example watching TV yesterday and today President Putin is in India
Or the next couple of days or having a state visit that
Uh he recently hosted the Chinese President in Russia that the Austrian town today with here
Are just yesterday so at talk of Russia's isolated in a ... a prize states I think it doesn't doesn't really feel like that here but certainly I think Russia is worried about what the consequences might they have all these accusations and whether the accusations ... translates into fed the sanctions and for the economic harm
To Russia I think that is something that Russia is concerned about less about humiliation and being a pariah state but more worried about the practical implications
Satirized but it must going to thank you very much and they took interest that about the Russian response to those claims my three western nations Russia was focused racing a number of cyber attacks around the world
[noise] and
We're going to budge he's done
Now which is closed a number of international gonna visuals over the past year usually accusing them of supplying
The largest group to free such auction as the charge auction aid we supposed to development ... projects or we can all talk to actually general circuitry a general ... Lena and good morning ... thank you for joining us what's the reason you should do
A good morning and thanks thanks for this opportunity a unfortunately we don't we have not received a any reason for the government for the decision
A first ... to to do is just the organization that we have a period it or feel worse denied earlier this week without a not a single reason but we believe that what's behind it
Or is it ... and they'll see a recent attacks will to society I think some journalists are an is part of a larger trend of uh suppressing the space for civic engagement
What exactly are you doing in Pakistan that is causing them discomfort
Look or what we're doing these fights over the a and to ... or ... meters of families in Pakistan on education on women's rights land
Uh on on a fighting hunger humidity tied an eight or ... minutes she was the spectacle of quite of clicking through thousand and three who have reached out to more than ... with four million people so what do you have time to
Read the use of a strategic ally to the government and there's no reason boost of the things you're talking about why you would want to shut you don't
... I Believe it it has to do with the approach that many of us are have have have adopted a off actually not only delivering services to people but actually uh organized people so that they can be aware of the rights and they can hold the government to account
Or do we ... we ... on a responsibility on fighting poverty
I can see how they're allergic route governments would comfortable you know in your gun to for example do or problems auction aid when you were shut down and you're ... you're not sensible for extended periods of time
For the same reasons because the government was uncomfortable because of your work then what does it was actually a to look at the disclosing discomfort among ...
I think it's more of what is it to governments that suits comfortable when service aside to come to go to a to claim writes a is a fundamental part of democracy is a fundamental part of their beliefs of society structure to gather this was standing with development schools that you had ... active independence
A suicide so this pressure on on the human rights
Or to organize to uh to have a few free X













[noise]
Happy to be released the campus of the Indian Institute of technology Bombay [noise] I think it's unfair to MIT India's rights as mine
Little known fact developing your is added to the dining hall ... refund makes ... from Soviet Union [noise]
Video was Nineteen fifty eight and India had only gained independence from Britain a few years ago India First five minutes as you're not natural dreamt of building a prosperous and technologically superior India whose political system would be a cross between a British style parliamentary democracy and a Soviet style socialist states
This willingness to shift activity and technology is something that you can see my ... year and I think setting up I really would be a part of that
... from ... house a think tank in Mumbai dice continue to be friendly with India with stubbornly non aligned which meant it was neither of the two blocks during the Cold War then Nineteen Seventy one happens
A lot of
Times [noise] sort of have
That indeed are gone to a few months before the salt of the India Pakistan wall
The American ... Pakistan meant that President Nixon order the seven fleet to enter the bay of Bengal all the Indians saw this as a threatening move Mrs Gandhi signed a treaty your friendship with the Soviet military analysts come to some day they served in the Indian Navy
... on the ... the Soviet Union and one of the glow of to do just that if any can target the attacks any one of them to consider the attack on the each other
There was no looking back for India and the Soviet Union from this point the Soviets became the biggest applause arms and our mission to India the entire Indian submarine fleet and its early days
Consisted of hand me downs from the Soviet Union also the collapse of the Soviet Union India has diversified its arms supplies but regularly go shopping to Moscow
Looking for arms others won't sell it off for cheaper option friendship is also driven by India's energy needs ... from gay tree house
India is a large oil importer and is looking to invest in fees and we have made ten billion dollars plus investments in ... ... is an oil exporter and it meets demand security and Russia has there for me just taking that logic Indian refinery basically finding and uses for its products
But the ... of American culture and India is all of Asia and it's easy to assume that by Russia selling India arms and ... the rest is winning hearts and minds yeah
... ... reporting
You listening to a nice day with advocacy James and James ... no forty two minutes ... without your cooks bizarre in Bangladesh and a few minutes when it was increasing resentment from low coups against the ongoing presence of ranger refugees who fled ... now the government's he's planning to read a catering
And then go a correspondent in cooks is bizarre will have more on that story
Of the [noise]
The largest museums must you couldn't get a good morning or good morning Alan fessed up to bring you up today leading sponsors of crusty on every now and I have voiced concern for the right guy made against us sportswear giant Nike described the claims
By an American woman Katherine my yoga as disturbing another sponsor of the porch current events of style the games manufacture the a sports said it was
Closely monitoring the situation on Tuesday of this week police in Las Vegas said they reopened and investigation into alleged consult
Which they spent nine years Cristiano Ronaldo has strongly denied any wrongdoing
Meanwhile there's been support from his club event is er which described him as a great champion or come statement said he'd shown in recent months there's great professionalism and dedication and the events are allegedly dating back to almost ten years ago to know changed his opinion that event is to say but not
To the action on the pitch now undefined phrase win by our snow in Azerbaijan over ... last night gave them the AIDS victory in a row it was a strong showing despite it being a a different looking scored what a night for teenager Emil Smith wrote to scold his
First go for the copies only Eighteen years old coach who not Emory sounds like things are coming to get a pretty well
Each ... is very important for for for show us on these then for the sake of the most I think that coffee fence a
Vaguely than for for for the players as much as just one ... for four days and then you have the whole the I was on the on the on the beach
Trying Santana celebrating in the studio new five times champion severe where beach in Russia by ... and AC Milan Bates all NPR costs three one all the details of the right to leak action
On the BBC Sports website other stories for you will for a job back in the Ivory Coast's court for the next Africa Cup of nations qualifies he missed the last qualifies for personal reasons ... returns
For tobacco matches with Central African republic this month there's also a first cool to the elephant scored for two players the young ... Ga
On church basement failed ... Ibrahim sun yeah All right
I Am a confederation of African football has confirmed that they're going to use a our video assistant referees in the finals of both this year's continental cub competitions the champions league and confederation ... technology marches on the nation's capital surely not far behind
Now we're talking yesterday about the international Olympic Committee telling amateur boxing is well governing body it's got to show tapped his governing issues
By next month or risk missing out on the Tokyo Olympics in twenty twenty at once I tried to address its finances government's anti doping issues and all that before November Steve ... says boxing commentator for the BBC he said any ban could have a huge impact on the ...
If we go back in history last sixty also is that had just been dozens and dozens of Olympic gold medalist who at rural it's old white invasion I Can't imagine
Looking back on a boxing history for ten years ago when the time and not having
The previous waiting the is full of Olympic champions that would leave a last gasp in the ... that I've been covering for thirty five years there would be a disaster
That stay button most sport for you to Eighteen thirty GMT and sport today here on the babysitting [noise]
Enough a comfortable exciting I'm telling you I Know he's got a little iffy what we've heard about all those which doctors will see things that you have none of
Us have been looking forward to that
Reminded about twelve stories this morning one week after the earthquake and tsunami on the Indonesian island of St Louis you power what's a mobile phone coverage is returning to some of the last few terrorists but also President Trump's Supreme Court nominee Brett covered up
Has reminded has admitted the subtleties testimony so that was last week was to shop and emotional
And also so I'm just a total of diversity of close to the short term environmental benefits of wind power
Let's go to South Africa you've heard of this phrase America First right oh yeah yeah so it's not for the first ... from South Africa presidents ... on Thursday we'll address and businessmen
Untreated you noticed in the country he said that you aim was to reduce the country's unemployment rate which is currently up about twenty seven
Percent is around oppose of describe that employment as South Africa's greatest challenge he said he was turning some families and communities into zombies let's say the thoughts of a young South Africa and
I Am ... from South Africa I decided to these ... and ... and lost his student in general
You know equal and it was
To the streets young people who who who is he's who is the continuing hormones strive
Reach out to come to this one so that they can get them out with the request to
And usually who's form on him [noise] and I'll make number on
When you apply for all of a
Watching you know we want to be done about
Even if you don't have a case in most cases
You on a vacation
Most common post you find that
Young people not being absorbed in
What happens is even when people get them on the job to be based on the intentions in terms of my love for you too
The society coffee unemployed
Which means you need to seek ... having you
Gain going who's just quite hard
Competitive market to the point that sudden people
My age to respond to this day and you find that even on these new jobs for so long [noise] the reason the with the
Goal is to substance abuse
Maybe see well this this is the last show with the real story one topic one hour every week and this week we're coming to you from a city that's known as the gateway to the Arctic Trump said no way we're here to talk about climate change
This is a country that generates ... noise mountains lakes and rivers on just beautiful
There the ...
But this is also one of the world's biggest producers of oil and gas fossil fuels have made new way rich and then making the world will not
Be all skiing hound overweight deals with this Thailand and if it can be a global leader in the battle against climate change the Norwegian environment minister tells us choices will have to be made and they wouldn't be easy
And we hear how melting ice in the Arctic is affecting animal and marine life I'm Lucas warning about the impact of rising sea levels on people all over the world that's the last the b._b._c. news
Penna I'm ws if the b._b._c. news week after a huge he destructive as quake and tsunami hit the Indonesian island of single ac
Power has been restored and some shops and things have reacted in West effected city all the
Survivors are beginning to receive basic supplies that just drinking water Muskie luck is pushing into previously in accessible areas within fourteen hundred people incentive died by the title is expected to rise as ... reports from pilot
The search and rescue operation does continue on a sense of in Honolulu on this enormous shopping center which a week ago would have been very very busy
So it's the may still be hundreds of all these hidden that that needs to be discovered to believe that there are still some towns and villages completely engulfed in mud slides it may be the policies that can never be counted
The Indonesian government us that it's doing all it can foreign aid is also arriving but in terms of morality coming back well rebuilding the city the government estimates to take up to two years
President Trump's nominee for the U.S Supreme Court Brett Kavanaugh
Has acknowledged that some of his testimony to senators last week was too emotional and an article in the wall Street Journal the judge in months there were things he should know since said but he said he's was reflected frustration with the crude run for and vicious allegations of sexual misconduct from Washington he's Nick Bryant
Extraordinary first of all he's written this op ed in the first place I mean Brent Kavanaugh who's been running this larger campaigns are highly political animal
But he said he was ... for his family he was fighting for his good name and he was fighting for his nomination and he was thinking during a hearing of his door says of his wife or his mom and his dad and not explained his passion
Prosecutors in South Korea are demanding a twenty year prison sentence for the country's former president Lee Myung bak
His trial on charges of bribery and abuse of power is due to you in short the mentally who is president for five years until twenty Thirteen is accused of accepting bribes with more than ten million dollars he's pleaded not guilty is that just in the United states say that wins headlines may contribute to high temperatures
They found that the headlines in to see it was when path in schools in the air around them to heat up he's really not like
Song says the Harvard University safe wind power provided older us energy ... to ...
And just for best of the cold and dust in the long run because some of the benefits and stopping the burning of fossil fuels would struggle to compensate for the woman from took on for decades to come through searches on policy makers to choose other types of renewable energy generation especially Florida which is found ... some woman compared with wind turbines
This is the world news from the BBC
Japan has pulled its will ship out of the times nasal event in South Korea next week flooding into speech which plans to fly the red and white rising sun slack on board
Sounds too and also the vessel refrain from wasting the flag which has long been associated in the country the Japanese colonial rule in wartime ministry aggression
Had scouts Australia has apologized victims of sexual abuse among its ranks and missing the organization didn't listen when some came forward its head feel Harrison made a video statement south inefficient inquiry into abusive various institutions that the scouts and a long history of allegations against it
We apologize for not listening when some of you shared your stories with adults in scouting you trusted as a pasta hundred and ten years scouts destroyers proud to have light a positive contribution
To the development of Mormon Tunisian young Australians however some of you this was not a positive experience and you have suffered
For this we most sincerely apologize and pledged to do whatever we can to help ...
A former scout leader was convicted in twenty teens from decently so the two boys in the Nineteen nineties did he sponsors of one of the world's top football as ... have voiced concern over the rape allegations made against him
And I he described the claims by an American woman caster ... as disturbing
And other sponsors and the Portuguese ... sports said it was closely monitoring the situation Christie on them and now they has strongly denied from doing she has in the electric carmaker Tesla have picked by two percent of its chief ...
... us financial regulators on Twitter days off this acting full charges against him by the securities and Exchange Commission which is cool the agency the short Senate enrichment commission is Damascus to condemn that
BBC nice
Welcome to the real story from the BBC well service I'm ... and this week we're in Norway inside the Arctic Circle
In front of me their boats bobbing on the water and great chunks of forested mountains this is from say which lines in the northwest travel a bit further north to the islands is all about and the ice sheets the domain of ... seals
But global temperatures go up the ice is melting sea levels are rising on marine and animal life is threatened scientists believe if we want to keep the climate with a million with we need ice at the polls
Experts amazing in South Korea this week to see if global temperatures can be kept from rising by moving one point five degrees Celsius the century
They say it'll mean making some difficult choices
And always a country that takes the environment seriously where I'm standing and from so it's surrounded by snow dusted peaks and lots of water
It's beautiful and very useful this country's landscape of mountains lakes and rivers is also the source of the clean hydro electricity that pile is no way but there's a paradox this country is still a major producer and exposure of oil and gas
On the real story this week we're debating Norway's energy future what
A country that's grown rich and the proceeds of oil be prepared to make radical choices for the global environment and come this country's approach to the future provide a template for authors that said inside the wolves to be top panel
And they are ... good medicine and pay for the conservative party here which is the largest policy in the governing coalition carrion is above cascade empty for the socialist less policy gay solicits regional manager of Norwegian oil and gas which is an industry buddy
And Barry Christ officer and associate professor of political ... at the University of Trump's say welcome to the will I Want to begin by asking each of you how strong would you say a new ways green credentials Kerry and his ...
I Do believe that although we have the oil industry and that we are exporting a lot of oil and gas our green credentials are quite a significant and should be taken into account especially I Want to mention
What a a various political parties have done the wreck the several years transforming that the transportation sector that we have here in in Norway and
We have at the moment a lot of new electrical vehicles coming into and driving around all across Norway and that's something that the I Believe that we should be quite proud of who can't Goodman since I'd read last month
Cars were electrically and that's the crux of the major league towards a more green society especially when we know that the transportation sector is a big country be thrown into the field to credits yeah so for me I think it's very important that we have an active
Policy towards seeing getting new technology that drives the green shift and still has the oil and gas sector because it gives the money to do all the research on how
Well the the green technology development
Gay Sunday so I think the because of oil and gas we can't afford to be have a huge impact do make the climate better global and we do a big job abroad or we do a big joke inside no end up is because we have the money for more than ... to do to jokes
We do a lot of things in the rain forest numbers on those we do look with the electric cars you know what I Know there's a good thing
The ... from all the panel these green credentials their Christophe it's an ... are you going to agree
Carry this this is not the view that shed by much of the new age in public that actually better that no way does this we do it well it's not safe policing when the power comes from no way we take it out cleaning from the ground
And where the good guys and all of this I think that's been a very important part of the story that we've been telling ourselves in the way over the past twenty Thirty years or being an oil producing country at the same time that we're trying to frame of cells that the climate friendly country in a way
And what we're seeing now is basically a shift because we're also taking into account both that the consequences of climate change that we are seeing today but also what's really going on in other countries are in the world and in Europe we're seeing this big energy transition now
From fossil fuels and being dependent on importing false ... in in many countries to want to be
Energy independent and building more and more renewable energy in the in a lot of unusual energy
And that's a whole new transition that we are seeing and and that's happening in the right person that's happening in Germany and that's going to change the markets
To which we sell our petroleum at the moment as far as you can sense should the Norwegian government be grunting new exploration licenses for it in places like the ... seats in the up to I Believe that we shouldn't be doing that and Main reason for that and that's a perspective that I Believe is sort of missing in the debate so far and that is
The timeframe that we're talking about it because if we actually sat and say yes to new production and new oil fields being developed for example in the ... today they will be still be producing and twenty seventh day twenty eight and that is a couple of decades off the twenty fifth day when the world should really be toward zero
Zero Clemens got submissions can ...
Well I think we have to see it on the great escape because if you're going to shut down all the power pounds based on cold
In the works but I don't know oh yeah we're talking about well yeah but my point is that if you have replaced coal plants root for example gas
Or even oil that will be more green in the total world my point is that if we want to make the bird greener re first has to start stopping the coal plants and when we do that we need to have something to replace it with
Um when I Want to buy our electric car for some in Norway I have to wait two years because they don't produce them fast enough
So we have to be realistic of course we're going to have striving to worse agree in this society I'm totally agreeing with us but we have to do it in a way that actually is yeah do
All that stuff is in this in this movement of transition it probably does make sense then driven the vibrancy because actually might be environmentally sensitive but it's better than say many of the old sinuses they're out there
I think it's very limited have long county or and others can argue that gas will replace coal and that we should just continue and look can develop new oil and gas fields because that's the tragedy we've had over a hundred and fifty explorations in the ... the hundred and fifty more are kind of on the table and uh
If I can draw on the ... of when I was next sense and and I came back a few years later
And my mother told me in Seattle that now I Know what you're talking about the climate change because now we're seeing it and I said so do you think the u._s. should do something about it then and then she said no China should do something about it
Because they are polluting much more than enough and if you go to international conferences where we are discussing climate change and plus I feel if I was in office for last week and that was at the summary of the whole conference
It was saying that Norway is the bad guy and to put it into words of the students and when I talk to them today and told him I was going to say well we are the richest country in the world why can't we afford making a plan
To get a full sized feels good sunny stuff
Would look at the time frame because ... says well it could be draining on two twenty Seventy yeah you'd will and it will be like that if you base your numbers on I ... a international Energy Agency they say it's still in twenty fifty
One third of the energy production globally will be from oil and gas and that is the big numbers
And they say that we will have a decline every year for the total production of noise globally so we have to replace production until we're able to
Make shift without it and remember duck is based if we go to do a big big job we do to increase renewables about six thousand percent another huge
How do you want to just to mention also that we will also double or triple nuclear power globally
If this was true we're not going to reach the climate targets the Paris Agreement the target is that you know it's not and and we'd be debating and those are
Those numbers before but it's important to understand that we don't have a lot of time and it's going to take a lot of drastic measures
But it's also important to understand that the speed of the renewable energy at the moment how sauce it's being built toughest new investments are being made into when you have all energy and it's so many different types of renewable energy which are cheaper
Than gas and oil team competition with the whole as a politician and in a country like no way would you largely agreed is environmentally conscious thinks of itself is green it's still difficult to sell these ideas
How enough does anybody else can I buy and well it's difficult in a way that it's become easy I've I've been working environmental issues for for ten Fifteen they're such a moment and
It's become you see it but I think it's easier in other countries actually done in Norway and important to understand that why why do you decide well because we have been producing country for so long and it seems to a large part of
Who we are and how we identify ourselves and I mean a lot of people
Has been working and are working in the petroleum industry and I just want to underline that
We're not talking about shutting down production that we have today it's about whether or not we should invest in morally feels for the future can convince
Is kind of we have to look on what are our options what are the renewables for example
Where are discussing to mix in a more a bio diesel into our airplanes to make their more renewable but where do you have to do so well uh you get to a perhaps if you're a lucky from or organic waste and it's part of the circle but ah if not you have to produce it by making
Some of our Lance part of the ... de Soleil production instead of making foods
So I mean we have to be realistic and
If he wants to have a more green unfriendly environment you also have to have the technology and who are going to develop that well it's the engineers stuck to now have the the jobs in the oil and gas industry
And we see that the ... that's called a clean uno they changed their name it's part of the trust as they because they understand they're also part of the Grinch shift so my point is you can't just have a switch and say let's start with oil and gas and now we're going to turn green is it a long process
And oil and gas industry is actually part of it and the first thing we have to do is to shut down the coal plants to make the word more green gay or
At the same time we have to address CCS since his view because carbon capture and storage or carbon capture and use it is both a central themes in the transition into
But not one of which have successfully than no trial yet again it's a lot of the things we have to do at the same time and this is one of the great things we can use our engineers do
This is one of the great things we could use our universities for the ... from the burned see is like ... regions big ... on each other and they thrive when it's cold it's dark so this could be one part of the solution
There's a lot of things we have to do and we can do because we are in the situation we're
Carry you wants to connect with CBS is definitely important and we are in the situation in Norway ... effort political party actually agree on see if we let me just explain yeah this is what we mean by that cash a
Story and it's essentially the idea that you could somehow take the call them for the environment and and put it away the underground or under the seals in life you know we've been trying to develop that technology
In no way for for some time now
And I think the technology exists it's a matter of making it profitable and making it possible for companies to actually use and the government didn't no way are shifting government suspend quiet all of a lot of money to try to make that happen there is
Getting down to the details again and CCF has been focused on in Norway for Twenty years I think the also an to challenge to politicians here with a greater sense because I don't think when you were saying the solution is more oil and gas I don't think
When we know what the harm is doing the climate changes if you're going to spend a lot of money and preparing for more oil and gas than how are we going to deal with the transition that's taking place sooner or later are we going to plan for it or not
We have to take a short break now but just to remind you please do less and they what you think of the program or if you have any ideas the topics ... the real story at BBC don't casual UK and you can subscribe to the podcast such the b._b._c. the real story you know pulled coughed up
Of the b._b._c. World Service of us has made possible by the American public media producer a distributor of award winning public radio contest
Eight PM American public media with support from the three R O T addressing the world's most challenging problems that the convergence of artificial intelligence audio tea and elastic
Drew our own the dogs are
[noise]
To go if you can see how it benefits their own society and if they think more locally and regionally about the way we plan with energy I don't think we will be in a situation that he's growing up with that we have to pay so much more for the energy I think actually we can make really good energy futures here
I'm interested all the solutions for rich country a country where the citizens feel comfortable and secure is there any sense in which no way can be a model for anybody else
Yeah I should think that we should sign sudden area certain specific areas where Norway should be leading in terms of developing new technology in terms of bringing that new technology to the market and make it profitable make it something that could be used also by other countries
And what we've done in the in terms of electrical ... with creating a market for a new technology
We should do that also in terms of the energy positive house buildings we could do it in in producing and manufacturing electrical boats and chips because we're a shift nation and I was being so there
Because of an I'm an engineer why would I Choose to academic thing other than oil and gas in a way
Well I think because you want to be part of really creating the future and I think the future and it just secure it is of supply will come from renewable not to develop new pipelines with gas
And I would like to bring attention to the development in order to Norway because with all this explorations that we've talked about there's only two developments and then to reach an architect to oil and gas fields
When the oil price plummeted and twenty fourteen
Than it meant that the other industries were really growing so within the fisheries now which is the second biggest export of Norway you have a lot of innovation and developments and we have a lot of towards ... actually have so much towards mental him so that people are starting to complain so we sort of this other it's just we're dealing with
And I think of all of northern Norway and nobody's really thinking that's new oil fields to benefit them so they're looking at other things to work on so if you are an engineer in in terms so I think you would rather studied renewable energy at our university which accounts
For other than oil actually had developed a new we have established a new renewable energy center because the students ask for it
Can't government's fault no no this is the opposite to each other I mean you have the development in the uh the American business so I mean
This is something we have to strive to shift to have the green shift or even though if we have a increasing tourists man I'm a I'm a great expansion and the American sector or because they were picture is that the international Energy Agency has predicted
That if we're going to be more green and to close down the coal plants
Well then you have to have more gas you have to wonder why don't you think you've made out there I
Know but it's ... it's it sounds like it doesn't say sometimes when I listen to skip because she's talking about a gradual change well if you're going to have a gradual change you have to have a plan how do you meet those challenges and I I haven't got a got them a good answer on the
Well Ken mentioned before the break that he was at a he's a technology optimist so and my
And that is why I I truly believe that that shift and the ... now in the energy sector is really happening and they happening
In other countries at the moment I mean look at China that the the speeds
Of of a new installment of renewable energy it's it's really amazing and and you have the paradox there as well with the coal fired power plants absolutely but my argument if you will see now that when you have and that will indeed be more cost effective
Than fossil fuels and that's the problem for us that's a concern for us because we really live at the moment today by producing and exporting petroleum
Well that which brings me to another point you mentioned China new ways role in energy security isn't this a country that much of Europe is Jolie grateful to buy new reached gas say twenty five percent of your supply because actually that pulls away a little bit from Russia gave
Does it does a good story about interpreter in Lithuania there's the support city there is an elegy terminal which taking natural gas it's named independence by the president there because it makes them independent from Russian got an older guys
On board ducked terminal comes from the barn she comes from her first comes from ... from the plant there so this is what makes energy security another thing in Europe than ... wanted to get energy but also the right kind of energy
She can argue that region energies playing some people might not reason to buying it but it will say that it means that new ways a counterweight to leave policies that are trying to explore the Arctic trying to find you
Seven to ... you'd be a true story maybe my point one would you be wage Brewster and streaming at W. B. U. R. dot org W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR News station [noise]

Very good morning to you welcome to museums the b._b._c. world saw this with germs called me on the
Lives will be voting ahead with lots of control the seats in the states will Mr Trump's pick for the Supreme Court get his job for life have been protests and the ...
We'll hear from a law professor who's against his appointment income and ruin the eight to five year old president is running for another time just by the conflict in the country and Brazil has left
Us his writing that residential pope whereas on the streets of Rio with a family one of the key candidate we respect people with the friends of any we don't do that then you can rest assured that Boston are respect democracy the most and was definitely protests there will end up those stories including sports on business news
For music of his ... [noise] [noise]

Hello this is David Austin with the b._b._c. news week off the hugely destructive us quake and tsunami hit the engine easy an item just sort of waste the power has been restored and some shops and banks reopened in the worst affected city Paul who
Pulled and fourteen hundred people are confirmed have died but the turtle is expected to rise as how Griffith reports from pound
The search and rescue operations does continue and it's centered in ... on this enormous shopping center which a week ago
Would have been very full very busy so it's fair that may still be hundreds of all these hidden that that needs to be discovered believe that there are still some towns and villages completely engulfed in mud slides it may be the policies that can never be kind to
The Indonesian government says that it's doing all hate can foreign aid is also arriving but in terms of normality coming back well rebuilding the say the the government estimates could take up to two years
And we just heard that officials in engine easy as say they believe more than a thousand people could be buried under a massive government housing complex in ... to
President Trump's nominee for the U.S Supreme Court Brett Kavanaugh has acknowledged that some of his testimony to senators last week was too emotional Nick Bryant reports
Rising in the wall Street Journal a highly unusual move for a Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh said he might have been too emotional during his testimony last week his time was shop you'd miss it and he said a few things he shouldn't of
Like just a day there'll be a vital procedural vote to decide whether his nomination will progress to a final Senate vote for the weekend to wavering Republican senators indicated they thought the FBI's investigation into the judge was fast and they did find no evidence to corroborate Christine Blasey Ford's allegation of sexual assault
But Democrats slammed the investigation as a sham and horrific cover up
Some news just in the form a South Korean president Lee Myung bak has been jailed Fifteen Years after being convicted of bribery and abusive power he's the fourth ex head of the state in his country to be sent to prison
For such as in the United states say that wind turbines may contribute to higher temperatures they found that the turbines interfere with wind patterns causing the average around them to heat up this report from will they are not in
The sun to ... university safe wind power provided older us energy it could cause a nationwide ... to ... degrees Celsius was stressing the wind is far better than coal and gas in the long run their course into the benefits of stopping the burning of fossil fuels would struggle to compensate for the woman from touch on for decades to come
Through such as one policy makers to choose other types of videos energy generation
Especially ... which is found to have a tenth of impact on warming compared with wind turbines
Will be another ... news from the BBC
Japan has pulled its worship out of a plant negative event in South Korea next week following a disputed rich plans to fly the red and white rice in some slack on board
South Korea house that's the vessel refrain from hosting the flag which has long been associated in the country with Japanese colonial rule about took ... said the use of the flock by its naval forces was defeated by your
Head of scouts Australia has apologized to victims of sexual abuse among its ranks admitting that the organization didn't listen when some came forward it's had made the statement off to an inquiry looking into abusive various institutions hurt the scouts had a long history of allegations against is
The winner this year's Nobel Peace prize will be announced HIV and also in the region Nobel Committee has received nominations from over three hundred and says he individuals and organizations Los ... reports from also
The rapprochement between the two Koreas have called the imagination of international book makers who each year take back some he might win the Nobel Peace prize many have the two countries ... favorite Nobel watches here I'm not convinced that they point out the lasting peace on the Korean Peninsula
Is far from secured than a legion Nobel Committee might have conceded recognizing the ethics of leaders in Eritrea and Ethiopia have agreed to form the and Twenty years of conflict but didn't have anything to do it
And Doctors Without borders it's worth remembering that book makers Nobel watches I'm journalist Randy managed to get the rights when a
Shirt and the electric carmaker Tesla dipped by two percent of fruits chief you know ... to ... us financial regulators on Twitter
Days off to such fraud charges brought against him by the securities and Exchange Commission is the most crude agency the fruits of enrichment commission BBC News [noise]
Thank you very much of even use but it's been a welcomed news day on the b._b._c. was service without sushi I made James ... minutes we'll be in the navy a week off that devastating earthquake and tsunami and officials now say they're worried for thousands of people may be trapped under building their rules I have a real head of Brazil's presidential elections
From all over you with us growing hunger crisis coming up when you say [noise]
[noise] was talking to you know just to show the political role but President Trump's Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh is coming to a head of votes on his own religion is imminent an audible critics in to see if the I report in politicians will sexual misconduct are due to complete with the governor has defended himself in an optical you know the American people
But that hasn't come things down more than three hundred people to be interested in Washington during a protest the comedian I shoot 'em up moment multiple Emily ... reports would be among those who are detained
Republicans say an FBI investigation has exonerated a judge Kavanaugh of sexual assault allegation these people demonstrating in New York explained why they oppose Mr having those appointment live
A sudden it does vary about drinking about is a very
Religious but very er into her rent out at all
Saying safer
Strong views that for people in the streets people making their views known in other ways to Samantha bucking I'm as clinical professor of law and direct to the juvenile justice to make a new school in Los Angeles she's also one of the signatories to a lesser in the New York times for both in two thousand little professors
Objecting to Brett Kavanaugh will being concerned to the Supreme Court
I was driven to sign a letter because of valuing the profession of law and the legitimacy of the Supreme Court
I was a deeply disturbed by Mr Kavanaugh's behavior during the confirmation hearings he interrupted several of the senators who were asking him questions he didn't answer questions directly and he at one point even
Attacked US Senator who had to ask a question about his drinking and he wound up turning that question back around on her without answering it and that was just really ... I at the very least he was on cooperative and unprofessional during his questioning
And if I were to behave that way in court
I have every expectation that I Would be sanctioned
[noise] he has written an article in which she has acknowledged some of those points he signed essentially it was a little too emotional his tone much being to shop there were things he shouldn't have said is enough to change your mind
It's not obviously it was very stressful time for him whether you believe that he felt that Dr Ford or you believe that he did not assault Dr Ford or doesn't remember assaulting Dr Ford obviously it was a very stressful time but we need someone who is going to sit on the Supreme Court
Who is not just fair and impartial when he got his back we need someone who is able to be dignified fair and impartial even when the going gets rough we need someone who's going to have the respect of the American people so that he can decide or she can decide
On matters of controversy and be the ultimate arbiter on what the constitution says about the law in the United states of America
He would make sure that these gangs to stay in prison for long back and then I'll put enough men are given the traditional security that if they encounter criminals with weapons on the street they can eliminate these threats and we guarantee that citizens have access to fire up to protect their and their family's life and property
Probably almost an hour as the son of Jeb Bush scenario for the front runner up at the front runner and Sundays Brazil's elections talking at the BBC to pranks living large in Manchester New
Hampshire let's just put a ... hour I think I live in the morning until you I'm a confederation of African football says it's going to use the A R video system referees for the finals of the ... club competitions we're talking about
The confederation cup on the flagship champions late late should face yeah um and ... and they use the leash announcing this move that they are the first confederation around the world to use vi and the final come competitions because most of the European football is there any catching that
For next season's contest and across the aisle wasn't price for the African
This year or you can say what you like about vi on an awful lot of people are not fans of it but it is marching around the global game very rapidly and date show they the Africa Cup of nations
Can only be a short way behind we will have to say it is next week to Africa Cup of nations qualified return once again by tobacco matches for the right to plan countering twenty nine chain and Wilfrid ... is back in the Ivory Coast scored ... than next mattress he missed the last games for personal reasons
But ... is back and they try to you for that matches the Central African republic
This month that's also another couple couple of names in the score to young players Chelsea goalkeeper Nick ... Ga and Toulouse base midfielder Abraham some guy who have both been called up for the first time
And the multiple world heavyweight champion Anthony judge here
We are told has made it much improved offer to the ...
The holder of the any heavyweight ground it just you a dozen times to guess unification batch in price but so far the effect has been written about ... according to Josh you as promoters only African sports nice and focus on Africa Seventeen forty five GMT and a little off too that's at Eighteen touchy sport today
I kept thinking the ... are going to result in all the football ...
[laughter] I'm not hearing about one of those feelings about what may roll my eyes out enough [laughter] I Know there must
Be ... thank you very much for the sports updates now Brexit we've talked about that we've ... we've interviewed on it it's coming but will there be a deal surprisingly perhaps not as prime minister seems to think such a packed in two weeks away and it is on the business that I Would say over Africa been saying
Well he's been saying he thinks it's going to be a deal on breaks and within two weeks which would be a little bit of a lightning bolt out of the ... most people are going
To hang on for two weeks wasn't that said there is a big part there are ways is with these things any plan has come up with a backup plan in order to avoid a hard boiled you on the island of Ireland between north and south so it's a very big not
However his comments come as today for the main political parties have no knowledge to meet with the European Union chief negotiate Trump ... Michelle ...
The largest union is on the the ... the one that keeps Theresa May set conservative party or ... in a ... a confidence and supply supports agreement in power then not going to be going however ... the main Republican Party and no knowledge will so ... to ... fame want
Is that France was correspondent Adam Fleming

Well shouldn't feign have said all along they won a special status for Northern Ireland after brags that um which is a controversial statements as we've now discovered in the ... the brings that process
And what the four parties are coming today shouldn't feign the ... the alliance and the greens is described as a stopped taking exercise but we suspect
They've come to be briefed by Michelle Barney on his updated plan for avoiding a hard border in Northern Ireland
That is keeping Northern Ireland in some aspects of the single market and the customs union if a future free trade deal doesn't achieve the same object if he's been tweaking the language of that I'm adding more technical details over the last few months
Ever since it was rejected by the u._k. and you mentioned the D you pay the rumor is Arlene Foster will be here to see me ... next week
And a group of northern Irish businesses are coming to get the same briefing next week as well
That was that Brussels correspondent them Fleming I Would like to play a clip as well from Chris pages of these these ... one of them don't have time for that however what I can tell you is live at the UP on meeting Michele Pontiac today they only team next week Michelle bunny eyes out with his plan of action for the European Union things will happen post breaks it next week
I'm so actually missed ... comments that we could ever do within two weeks
Not crazy crazy but I'm Still a little bit out of the
That's why I say thank you for that
[laughter] [noise] [noise]
... government faces a race against time to raise twenty nine million dollars that it needs to come back to hunger crisis of his life into effect about twenty percent of the country's population
The southern African country has been ... by severe droughts institution of the fall um warm which searches triple the number of hunger victims from one million into twenty Seventeen
Twenty eight team consumption period to three point three million this time round do not drink from blockbuster but then ... who is the circuitry to the treasury in ... but there's still find those to explain what's at stake good to have you on so
Why has the number of hunger victims grown up so much in the last ... months
Because a ... in most cases the continuous uh older the older drugs ... ah we experienced a on such good rooms and it was the end you'll find that there is really a a ...
A reason and you'll find that the uh most of the districts are affected ah which the a poor ...
A district with large uh























[laughter] I Know it was it just
Kind of um it's kind of like a past um section of my life
You have as we talk that despite the loft a staff takes over this very seriously she's ... she could have died adults I wanted to put him in hospital where she would have been cheap fat but not given psychological support instead her mom agreed to help them recover time
That was five years ago and steps now psychology students in the U. S. writing a thesis on the intersection between culture and eating disorders she's from Hong Kong but says the cultural factors she's identified apply to much of China
In Chinese culture you might be expected to eat everything that is put in front of you but let's say the media and I was being approached by at the time was saying like
Oh being status better all these kinds of different like moral connotations or attached to weight loss and wait in general and so it would be like oh am I supposed to respect my culture
And you know eat everything that's put in front of meat or do I want to be quote unquote successful in terms of what the media is prescribing it as do I want to be the best and of course in my competitive minds of the of course I Want to be the best um and so there's this weird conflict going on and
Do you think there's anything about women's role in society that comes into play here
Yeah for sure [noise] women are expected to be like smaller and not only in the way that they behave but also like physically smoke even though I can say that in Hong Kong it's already more progressive than like maybe other Chinese communities in the sense that
Women are allowed to take charge of their husband
If you're or inside the ice just like you know you are a slightly more muscular women even if you will be like stared at it and um even myself as a woman who like lift weights I Do get a lot of weird stairs and I have had
Like doctors tell me things like oh if you have too many muscles no one's going to want to marry you and he was a doctor it's so normalized on that you know people who are on like the ... or even expressing disorder symptoms no one really diagnosis that it only when when girls are dying
Oftentimes when when people are dying that's when they're diagnosed with eating disorders
Staff told me it wasn't until she moved to the U. S. the university that she had people talk about eating disorders as a mental rather than physical illness
People will say oh I had a headache instead of like I'm I'm not feeling you know emotionally well today and that's what I Would I get I deeply felt during my eating sorter but I was like oh it just it just because like my head hurts or my stomach hurts because these are the things that most people express their discomfort like that's the language that we use
Staff told me that even the what used to describe eating disorders themselves didn't feel right
The Chinese translation of anorexia is actually heating food disorder I think it's just very misleading the way that
Um it's name in my particular case um I I Love food with like my whole entire heart like food is life and so my eating disorder um developed it largely because I thought that if I could control myself in front of the things that I I really loved and
Um I used to eat with like know that you know then I could control my entire life
Stuff feels very strongly that sets an aspects of Chinese couch I make young people take can have honorable and eating disorders
I wanted whether a psychiatrist would agree with her analysis doped ... works at Peking University hospital in Beijing which has the only ties ward specializing in eating disorders in the hall of China she told me she's worried the cases are on the rise across the country
In the mail dishes mail you cook the food you there isn't reliable dates are available for reference all I can say is a clinical level we ... a huge pressure as there are more and more people like this
My experience tells me it's impact is huge it has destroyed too many families Trump sure that you do all
... their animals when the we used to think that eating soldiers were middle class problem or only found in people who are relatively rich but now it seems the problem is also seen in rural and working class people I also see an increasing number of boys who are ill
They say that they want to look like that only ... often um South Korean style to a very slim and somewhat feminine looking
Is that enough awareness of what to eating disorders are in China do patients and their families and friends recognize that they have a problematic enough to people realize what these illnesses are
... they have the TV that issue
How should I protect the awareness level is not very
Consistent that is some patients' families might realized very early on but they're not as it might take more than ten years to realize there was a problem and before they realize it they could have been treating it as a ... logical organic logical disease and
The feeling of shame is very strong so many people are not willing to face it [noise] and currently there's not enough attention to it in schools who pretend to see when a person becomes a risky than
How much do you think that ... west ... contributes to the problem of eating disorders in China
She's on the street on ... ... from western culture is certainly going great but I think it also has a little to do with the rapid development of China's economy nowadays there's food everywhere and China is a country of ...
So impatient hospitalized it is easy to get better but once they get out of hospitals have faced with all kinds of food temptations
That are currently notes extremely slim Chinese and South Koreans sing as movie stars on young people want to be like them
It's hard to say whether this is western influence but I think China's new found openness is definitely an important contributing factor another crucial factor is the over protective of Chinese families when it comes to their children so when the children stop to excessively squander food all money and then voted to tone up
The parents will try to let them be ... and I don't see why you wrote on China's highly competitive country and resources are still relatively ...
So if you want to be an outstanding person and that expectation is ... when you buy your family from childhood that means you need to be competitive in every aspect
The outstanding individuals before they got sick who was seeking extreme perfection in every aspect of winning is will they want and pleading controlling the weight
And we'll see about the status of women in society does that have any incense
Dish legal challenge in the ... will no longer in the Confucius culture in which women were so lax but I Would tend to their husbands and raise children
Growing up goes are expected to do as good as boys including academic schools and when it is time to start a family the expectation of marriage and children directly fools on the go
So girls may feel heavy button and there was a view that goes who suffer from eating disorders or trying to take control of their independence
There are many cultural factors that make young people particularly vulnerable to eating disorders according to talk to me and she said one of a concern with me that diet pills and acts of tears and direct takes off ... easily available
... diet pills on the run and in China cheap packaging ... production you have no idea what ingredients are in them off to using them you might experience diarrhea insomnia tremors
Switching into even psychotic symptoms like Lucy nations
On the online shopping website to talk about how they're all ... to just being sold with instruction videos
You can push that you into your stomach and seen out what you have eaten
But no one's doing anything about it and there's no little little regulation to restrict such things
You don't have to look very hard on line to see what she's concerned about
And to find disturbing social media trends including cycles challenges why young women paste pictures to show that waste can be hidden by the way it's a piece of a for pay per view that legs and narrow up then the length of ... six
Overlap from a few minutes of set ching
So what would the women have a message herself in China's social media find [noise] I like the men yeah pizza China sexual ... and the editor in chief of ... from ... a website to providing insights into one of the country's most populous social media platforms
One of the things that has become really big in China recently is the so called big stomach kings sluggers huh that's the Chinese literal translation but what it is it's basically extreme eating live streams
These girls it's all mostly all girls they have a following of seven million on way was so huge they usually popular and basically what they just do is eat
For ... grams of rice or eat hundred hamburgers or a hundred sushi and yet promoting this kind of a binge eating and is this binge eating followed by throwing the food up afterwards
You are if em Boston home of Boston's largest radio newsroom now do you do point seven WVU aids is very eighty nine point one WB wage Brewster and streaming if you'd be ... dot org W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR News station [noise]
Coming up after the news on the BBC well ... it's hard to quit me Stephen Zack today I mean London's
Paid more than a gallery which has played host to installations by some of the world's leading contempt for y'all just showing a series of works by my guests today
The Cuban conceptual office Tanya Bruce ... who's installations
And the ... performance pieces of attracted international acclaim and prolonged Harris wind intimidation and ... from the Cuban authorities so is she artist activist or both once
It's out of their religion so politics is part of my everything I can not separate having to stand on Sunday happening around me versus expressing their art conceptual
Artist tiny ... off to the news on the b._b._c. World Service with me Stephen Zack
Hello this is David all student with the b._b._c. news
Officials in Indian easy as say they believe more than a thousand people could be buried under a massive government housing complex in Palo city a week off to a hugely destructive of quake and tsunami hit the ... United and just sort of waste the mold and fourteen hundred people are concerned to have died from Palo his mic beak
Families are still visiting more trees in the hope of finding loved ones
Don't cause it's still treating patients in open I was I'm taking still crunch through mountains of rubble in the grim such for both parties or this will not stop soon
But Paul is starting to function again and power is back home some shops and banks have reopens and one big by buffalo network is backup rescue workers are pushing into cutoff areas when many say they survived only fruits
But many roads have been twisted ounce of recognition and said lots of areas still impossible to reach
A coach and so has sentenced to form a South Korean president Lee Myung bak to Fifteen Years in prison now to find him guilty of corruption is to me is that they just in a series of South Korea and business and political leaders to be sentenced to jail Laura ... reports
In in ... president at factory after she says it innate for five years the court gets Hammond that he was the real or not I think Robert Koch parts company and he used his presidency to benefit the business he was also accused of taking of eight eight million dollars worth of bribes from the state intelligence agency and
Former state run banking fan he continues to deny listed the charge even has one week to repeal
President Trump's nominee for the U.S Supreme Court Brett Kavanaugh has acknowledged that some of his testimony to senators last week was too emotional
Nearly three hundred people were arrested during noisy anti government protests in Washington on Thursday as a correspondence course boxer records [noise]
The Senate's like America is divided on protesters have been doing all they can to be heard by the small handful of politicians who still deciding whether they will vote for Brett
Kavanaugh in an article for the wall Street Journal judge Kavanaugh has not admitted I might have been too emotional at times I knew that might tune was sharp and I said a few things I should have said
The protests um the politically charged debates will continue but a final vote on whether Brett Kavanaugh she did the seats on America's highest courts noise seems likely this weekend
For such as in the United states have found that wind turbines may contribute to higher temperatures scientists at Harvard University say that if when power provided all the country's energy needs the changing of wind patterns around to binds could contribute to a nationwide booming zero point to four degrees
Will use from the BBC
China has rebuffed famous by the U.S vice president Mike Pence that it's meddling in American politics to stop them Trump being reelected in a statement the Chinese foreign ministry called the accusations song or is it said the country was committed to working with the U.S based on mutual respect
Japan has pulled its warship out of the times maybe that event in South Korea next week
Following a disputed ridge plans decided red and white rising sun flag on board South Korea lost as a vessel refrain from hosting the flag which has long been associated in the country was Japanese colonial rude bumped Tokyo said the use of the flag by its naval forces was stipulated by new
Officials in Bangladesh say two suspected Islamist militants have been killed during a rate in the southeast of the country they said the
Surrounded the height of the city of physical security forces have killed dozens of suspected Islamist in the past two years for a living and militant attack on a cafe in ... in twenty sixteen
The winner of this year's Nobel Peace prize will be announced late so and also the region Nobel Committee has received nominations from over three hundred and says he individuals and organizations ... reports from also
The rapprochement between the two Koreas have called the imagination of international book makers who each year take bets soon as you might win the Nobel Peace prize many have the two countries leaders I stopped favorites they'll do what is here
I'm not convinced that they point out the lasting peace on the Korean Peninsula is far from secured
Than a legion Nobel Committee might have conceded recognizing the ethics of leaders in Eritrea and Ethiopia have agreed to fool me in Twenty years of conflict well the nominees include organizations like the world food program and Doctors Without borders
BBC News
Welcome to halt talk with me Stephen second my guest today is an artist who draws no clear line between life
And her work tiny Abreu Guerra is a Cuban offices she grew up as the Castro revolution matured
On her instinct was and is to challenge the boundaries placed upon freedom of expression this has brought her into conflict with the government in Havana she's experience censorship Harrison and on several occasions detention
Or work combines installation and performance and very often she puts herself and
Her audience rights at the center of it right now she has a major installation project on the theme of migration of the ... mountain gallery in London like so much of her work
It must is the view or in the experience is it off or activism ... books at once well Tania ... joins me now welcome to how to here we are
In the modern gallery it is ... full of things all paintings of sculpture and yet you as an office seem much less concerned about things much more focused on ideas ... would that be ...
Absolutely I think the work I Do is an artist is focus on ... I Want to do political jester institutional investors healing gestures and I always feel that some of the most important things than you are invisible
And in a sense that strikes me that the
The tools of your off our
People both yourself but also the viewers the audience as well rather than paying whole material it's people that my
Well the material my work is social behavior and how we communicate with each other and society how we are together and of course that's the only made by people
You know long ago you said a ... is an expression of of myself or it's not something to be collected some I find that a little narcissistic [laughter]
[noise] well I did in math is about me I mean that I shouldn't be the place and wish everybody can look at himself and when I say not to be collected I mean that we have to fat tension
On what is the role of art that I I it's not only or should not me primarily some between that and economically but something through an dies in emotionally to open yourself up
So much of what you're doing well talk about the specific dishes installations and performances so much of it seems to me in some ways ... to see it than it is to any other form is that because from your you you you have been preoccupied with performance
Well I Am from a country that we have the best performer the rest for for for myself a rich history which just sit out a casserole
For inspiration well as it is a reference I say that in a way way of talking about politics there's a lot of fear to involve and what I'm trying to do my art is how can we break
The classic theater what everything has been already decided I'm peering into a place where people can't add something to the discourse
So let's talk specifically about this installation you have the tight end galleries are big on that because some of the world's leading contemporary authors get the opportunity to fill a huge hole you've done something very interesting with it because I actually if you haven't put much in it at all um
Yes I didn't feel I feel responsible more than anything and I felt and it's interesting because every time when I was in prison I say you have to throw that you'll have to liberate
My audience you have to live at the ... the ... of the work and I never told and those were dissidents so there were like
Why because I was the ... the fact that this was in our piece why because in Cuba



























And now there's a sort of autistic experiment that you are going to run for president in Cuba
No depression last us kind of is what I actually fads in the video was died because the elections are coming in because I completely controlled by the government [noise]
Meat rather with a group of activists wanted to tell every Cuban to proposed himself as a candidate
And I said well if I I get to do it I'll do it too I don't want to but then the fire and then I'm like here so I said well I started by proposing myself but I never said president
But I in a way this whole interviews about this blur the line between your activism you're off and your politics
Frankly given the sorts of people we see entering politics today who don't have a political Korea but come into politics from outside and think they can run a country and I was just one person I guess I was wrong [laughter] so why not allowed to finance area okay guys but the point is
Okay you know the politician but you've always been the occupied with politics and activism white white 'cause you're beautiful especially well
Believe me I said let's just say somebody like Tom becoming a president I think a lot of people who thought they could be a person to sniff out twice [noise] but um
For me it's not important to be in a position of power or to
Have every light only for me to emphasize that thing is to make sure that people that there is an educational process when people were everybody start understanding how it feels to be themselves
Is very hard because I think we have in Fifteen Years
Where even that fathers that parents are the sensors of the kids you didn't have to go to school already into how somebody say don't say that you're going to get in trouble shut up so well that's what I'm interested that how can we criticize social project
That indicates people into either back that can be ... by now
I'm Still completely blown away by the story of you and your father but it just strikes me in the course of this into everything you've described to me about your experiences in Cuba makes me actually think that you wouldn't be the office do you all today
Has not been through all of the experiences you've been through in Cuba or if you've been brought up with a relative freedom of of being a
A performance installation creative person in London
You probably wouldn't be the artist you all today well it is important
Not to romanticize censorship and it's important not to idealize a
More myself for oppression or people are more credit because of it but also let's take care not only Cuba has problems that were full of injustices and it's full of irregularities that are very unjust so I'm sure I Will have done something
And in the end we always regard cucumbers your home base your creative center or could you end up leaving behind
That's a hard question because ... still painful for me and you cannot have unless something that is painful
Tania ... it's been a pleasure having your own home to thank you for ... [noise]
Distribution of the b._b._c. World Service in the U.S has made possible by American public media producer and distributor of award winning public radio contact eight PM American public media with support from Corona's a jar payroll talent in timekeeping in one unified system
Learn more at ... dot com grownups workforce innovation that works

[noise]
From Boston University this is not the point nine WVU are Boston's NPR News station the light streaming it's W. B. U. R.
To go to the comfortable let's do it [noise] I
Saw some phone line of a lot of my uh one of the all the time in ...
Oh yes so we're looking at buildings that have sunk quite a distance
Yeah the second floor is almost on the ground
So this is the second
Here oh wow yes it really has so it looks to me like it
Should be a kind of basements slots as we might say in the in the u._k. and London on the ... I thought was ground level and that has gone down goodness me was this one woman tools that can get you in the field but several others that you can sit you head out but you can't actually said that she climbs out you don't really use them
Yeah but they have a five year selling clothes
And then there's also a printing company here and it's okay so we're still functional building is just a little bit different just ethically I thought well they can find a lot of the most of their friends for
Yeah which must be incredibly expensive [noise] yes ... ... they have to pay by themselves you know I have [noise] what about the long term but I mean they can't go on forever kind of your costs as thinking so really dramatic stat stressed except for going to have to be taking
A and some of the major road that they can buy 'em any government let both like for example uh undercooked I uh uh they act to die or built by the nature of government and coffee and tell the government
Uh in the beginning of this chair Indonesia government has a just signed a agreement with those type of program or something a little kid and that's including a policy are addressing a gun what section that was in life that she doesn't joy out
Of the ... been studies in ... said Joan water the Indonesian authorities doing about this
Well they're focusing for one on the war so this issue of residents taking walks by legally and illegally from the aquifer is under the sea because
Many residents say they have no other choice to not get the mains water so they're looking at this if you now are just involves um some improved treatments of waste water this going back down the drain so say cleaning up some of your costs as
The Seine River so ... can be taken from the news
Um in general authorities want people to use less will so they're looking at how that can be put into action in more modern buildings in the way the buildings are constructed I and also possibly guessing also from the state building ... some of the nation plop 'em you do see a hoax the from defenses along the along the frontier and
There's a bit more of a major project going on the construction of the greats gr route which is that such a Columbus is the evil being built across ... bay um to help try and prevent some flooding particularly in the city there's also skepticism about whether or in the long run it can actually prevent ...
I remember being in Jakarta Twenty years ago ... and driving back from the apple during the monsoon the rainy season the flooding was so bad that the cars wheels actually left the road and we were effectively floating down over the road to become a river it was
Frightening frightening stuff and at that time the traffic situation was still a nightmare into college I don't know what it's like today but I have no tests to ratchet ... just the other day that Tom tom Dutch company that produces traffic navigation and knocking products ranks to costs as one of the top three most congested cities in the world
Yes that's right it does frequently taught the title was that I'm sure Robin ... ... um the congestion here is still proceed bad people here tell us that off the net daily commutes can be
A total of three or four hours in our direction so quite troublesome for millions of people in this huge city
It doesn't like things are improving the aim is to improve things that are new rail lines on the construction
Or in the city at the moment the ... the the L off the these rapid transit systems that to be ... ... cars and helping to cost to catch up with some of its regional periods when it's not without its challenges as logging finding out

On Sunday on one of the main thoroughfare central to Costa causing bikes which saw the high rise hotels hoping for shopping watching out that the costs are in the right to one of the worst cities in the world for his traffic jams and the people living half a federal
Mimi ...
Be my car or the cycle here because it is very very not good for mentally I think
You think that they can take like ours did some way to make any more
Than it takes a lot of time when I when you think
It's really crowded and fairly high traffic
For they say if you try to garner the ... on your motorcycle
Find any changes in the ass off for years of delays new rail lines are under construction designed to improve legs from the ... the ... of the city I'm off to meet demand in charge and to get that I'm going to try the other ... popular mode of transportation half as much to buy [noise]
For the future to my phone I voted to go check it to fight ... fight millions every day [noise] [noise]
Well I can drive her hair ... actually he understands the ... [noise]
Some credibility fuzzy through ... [noise]
... [noise] no problem going through them anyway
From the left I'm not going to worry about [noise]
Getting I'm ... now [noise]
Some more like the thing [noise]
Or something by looking slightly ... to find out about another solution ... traffic problems mass transit section of the brand
New ... well I've been out of the next year stretching sixteen Columbus south central Japan to the amount of charge is William Safire into
What we are trying to close the gaps of people using probably ... it's a whole that
By having a new mattress to some people
What would happen to ... this project [noise] most of them being built in the way that it is what would happen to the traffic in the city but it just went
To a halt while according to the Saudis are a few years ago I have a good luck with little or invented it that is no method always being built the the the cost off traffic congestion has rich
Billion US dollars for a year and that is actually a not for better
Or for the the metro system so why wait
Where we have to say goodbye to William ... that we've come down to see inside this brand new station ...
Hot hot snipers that song it's absolutely cabinet ... the biggest station on the line [noise] it's so looking ready to go however not everyone has been happy during the construction period because I've been finding out [noise] [noise]
Hello military up at the company says ... do
Not like a slam cells imported touching rubbed his up market clear on how he told me about the effect of the construction work
Has been three years now since the MIT construction started and it it has affected our business people avoid passing through the this road
Can you put a finger on how much it costs you in terms of sales
Rose ... percent of our sales but now as we see it it's better than before and the sales are also increasing
Muslim and cast service dubbed ... chief resilience of a sudden he's well aware of the challenges facing the city and it's not just restricted to transform
If we didn't do anything from now we're going to be in ...
In the Next Fifty years [noise] so now that's why we introduced what we call it ... is the essence even if the
So we try to solve the problem or a herb and herb and she's in the threat to solve the problem off you know with no water rubber bullets lot
Probably be the best one pitch and under what we call it the ...
Of ... ... she steps Ethiopia many cheating or we learn from them like Tokyo seen before so we don't need to do the same mistake and we can look I Would see the much much better than them because we are following the right
Where we believe that you can be much much better in the next ten years
From ... and in that report much on the street in Chicago says she actually known as the big during and after I shall we say interesting spending tropical fruits he has this edition of business painted with back again at the same time on Monday [noise]
Were funded by you our listeners invite the BSO guest conductor ... into open season was works like coffee driven skiing bar talk October and listen to Thirteen tickets at the door and Welsh inform customized investment portfolios private trust
Are Eighteen thirty eight Welsh forums dot com [noise]

Love a big victory
Team that you kind of cat to double you are in the Boston Globe
Investigate the largest art heist in history I'm Kelly how're you doing me and my comment Tuesday night at ... Boston for a life of a new episode wheels of behind the scenes to the latest in search for Thirteen missing masterpieces each a double life that was
Last seen in part by aiding Samuel Adams [noise]
From Boston University or listening to the point nine WVU are FM Boston home of Boston's largest radio news rum Ninety two point seven ...
Eighty nine point one WVU wage Brewster and streaming at W. B. U. R. dot org told you that you are all students NPR News station
And I'm Mary in motion with the b._b._c. news
This year's Nobel Peace prize is being joined ... due to the Congress has gone to college is Dennis ... and ... human rights activists not humor rod for their work against the use of rape as a weapon of war the head of the Norwegian Nobel Committee said the prize raised awareness of the need to prosecute the perpetrators of rape his Caroline wholly
Different generations different continents but the Norwegian Nobel Committee said they put that personal security at risk to combat the use of sexual violence as a weapon if will now be in the right who's just twenty five was kidnapped by the Islamic state
Repeated the weight and tortured the Nobel Committee commended ... Coleman courage in ... thousands of other women subjected to the same with equal deal
Her fellow laureates Dennis ... is a ... gynecologists known is still to miracle so he's what are the two decades repairing the internal damage done to women who've been gang raped
Officials in Indonesia say they believe more than a thousand people could be buried under a massive government housing complex in ... city a week after a hugely destructive as quake and tsunami hit the Indonesian island of civil way see more than Fifteen hundred people are going to have died in the disaster Griffith is on sort of way see
It's now a week since launched waves of central subtle ways eve what changed forever by too powerful earthquakes and tsunamis while the focus of the rescue effort started in lieu let a piece of thousand people are being killed
Or does now trying to quantify the impact in other places like potato bowl on by little they're mudslides of drowned entire villages and national disaster agency has told the BBC that the funding auto cliff deaths maybe around three thousand
In reality we may never know
That also Seventy thousand people are still in need of aid having been forced from their homes
Pleasing from are investigating the disappearance of the president of the international police organization Interpol the Chinese national among whom way he's believed to board a flight to China and they last month ... reports from Paris
May home weighs sixty four was elected as president of devine ... two years ago
Last Saturday you supposed to have boarded a flight to China leaving his wife and children in the city of ... what Interpol is based but since his departure his wife says he's not heard the word for a minute [laughter] you went to a belief I may open an investigation a French official has said that Mr ... did not disappeared in frogs
So it's presumed that something's happened to him in China
The Rwandan opposition leader ... and her mother being free don't ... up spending a year in jail most face charges of fraud and inciting insurrection allegations they deny and describe as politically motivated
You are listening to the nation's well news from the BBC Russia's hasn't signed a deal with India descended ... s four hundred set his to Amazon system despite the threat of sanctions by the United states the five million dollar agreement was signed in the presence of the Indian prime minister Narendra Modi
And a visiting Russian President Vladimir Putin in daddy and I was in Iran and report
India says it needs sophisticated weapons systems like the U. S. four hundred missiles to modernize its aging weaponry Moscow is expected to start the delivery of the ... and two years' time Russia is India's largest supplier
But the United states as ... countries trading with the rest just a different sectors that they would face automatic sanctions because of Moscow's annexing Crimea from Ukraine alleged meddling in the twenty sixth in us presidential elections
The U.S newspaper the Washington Post left opponent blanks today in protest of the disappearance of one of its country because the Saudi Arabian generalist Jamal ... which was Yogi went into the Saudi Arabian comes to that in Istanbul on Tuesday and hasn't been heard from since
He's been a critic of the policies of the Saudi crown prince Mohammed bin Salman
You'll surges in Pakistan and say the main opposition leader Shabaab Shareef is being arrested in connection with a corruption case
It was ... for the anti corruption agency that the case related to the development of a ... game when Mr Sharif was the chief minister of Punjab province which is your reef the leader of the Pakistan mostly league denies the accusations
According Gemini has ordered a temporary hold on to the plant clearance of the patch of forests at the center of a dispute between environmentalists and the coal mining company it was time for the court to consider a case no just by environmentalists
They oppose the destruction of the ancient ... open costs coal mining arguing that emissions from banning coal mining Germany's climate change commitments BBC News
Hello and welcome to news ah from the b._b._c. World Service coming to you live from London on John donation on today's program where we live in Brazil two days before the country goes to the polls
DJ approaches for judge Brett Kavanaugh will speak to one of more than two thousand lawyers you've signed a letter saying he doesn't have the right temperament for the U.S Supreme Court and
The head of Interpol disappears last seen boarding a plane to China will find out more
But first the list of Nobel Peace prize winners in the hundred and Seventeen years since its founding as something of a historical who's who Theodore Roosevelt Martin Luther king Mother Teresa Desmond Tutu the Dalai Lama today this year
We just you know ...
Has decided to have war to the Nobel Peace prize for twenty eight teams to Dennis ... and now the ...
For their effort to end the use of sexual violence as a weapon of war and um some slick [noise]
So slowly I had made a crucial contribution to focusing attention on hand combat thing such war crime
So who are both of them ... she's a twenty five year old ... human rights activists to enjoyed three months of sexual slavery after being kidnapped in Iraq by Islamic state militants four years ago
Now do you spoke to the BBC Sarah ... through a translator in two thousand and sixteen and I should warn you she talks in a graphic kind upsetting way about her own experience
And where and what does your does you had real jak divided us into groups ... a hundred and fifty girls including me as three of my young gang effect that
Day to crash bypass to Mosul Dick Cheney gave a touching breasts and shopping day ph in our faces
Speaking no ... to ... uh like David going to do to us that night the two guys to they have quite a move so it was a big place many on girls and women and children or CD they chose me that's ... di ...
Came and choose some girls to see him as a rape then and then brought them back they told me that some of the girls are still
At that moment I realized what was going to happen so I Am a I'm
Not yet ... speaking back in two thousand and sixteen well earlier today I spoke with not his friend and colleague Murat Ishmael
I stayed up all night because I thought that really not going to win then I fell asleep because I get really tired and the second thing I woke up where I check my phone and I so about twenty missed phone calls and and that's when I knew that she won the prize
And what what it means for not yeah on your organization
It's recalled mission own demise crimes committed its support message I think it would be a lot of energy that will be behind us as we can pin for the commissioner with the genocide for the accountability against ISIS for drinking
Thousands and thousands of perpetrators to justice and also for the future of coexistence of years you these and other minorities of Iraq it's time for the minorities to live with minimum dignity
We've heard of some of the horrific things that she personally has been through I mean what kind of a woman who should
And D.C use digital federal credit union where you can get the same low car loan rate on a used or a new car but can DC you save you DC you died or
[noise]
Listening to news from the BBC Wilson is with me Joan ... a week after the deadly tsunami and earthquake which devastated much of the Indonesian island of sort of ways he
Hopes of funding survive as Trump's under the rubble of diminishing by the hour and today the dreadful news from Indonesia and officials are more than a thousand people could be buried under a massive government housing complex in ... city
Search and rescue teams have previously thought only a hundred people were missing in the complex it's already know that at least Fifteen hundred people died across the island will sleep best song of the international emergency firefighters in politics said survivors were still being sold the time was running out
You don't know if you're ... yesterday to folks are sent through to a possible victims detection several times with books detect signs of what we can fence with such kind of all we did have a signal and this morning we did without the rations
And we have no response time we did everything we tried to buy time you saw if they're listening devices scanner we tried everything we have never slumps then
Well I've been speaking to our correspondent how Griffiths who's also in ... about the possibility that the authorities funding more people buried under this housing complex
We understand that there may be as many as a thousand people better than if it is very very difficult to say because of how these mudslides came so suddenly in with such ferocity
Entire homes are completely in case of the matrix two a month and that means of may never be really possible to know
How many people died
The authorities say that that means eventually they may estimate that the official death toll of ... the current Fifteen hundred and Seventy one in fact the deputy head of the ... the soft image and she told me eventually when the sun comes he thinks the final tally maybe two
A thousand people possibly trapped underneath is that any possibility some of them might be a line
It hard to talk about the goals and taught him all the realistic window of opportunity that someone may have if they are trapped in an earthquake
Stage we are not one day seven as calls this all happened well roughly around this time last week
But because of the mud slides and because the enormity of it the possibility of being a pockets within not whether still access to oxygen
Is very very small so I don't think anyone readers degrees looking at a rescue mission there it's more retrieval and for all the surviving people in this area really
And it's very treacherous work how they got the equipment they need to find that people
Are so in the last day or two we've actually seen heavy lifting machinery come into
Places like ... and try to get on the area of the central shopping center where hundreds of people I believed to have been a track
But we're still talking about small amounts of machinery and very difficult to move it's around ... similar
Issues with the aid mission which will soon become the priority because for the Seventy thousand people to their homes but only in the last day or to have some of those people actually had the water supplies in the medical supplies that they need and probably still not in punch with numbers
And full families missing loved ones not much they can do but
Yes I think everyone would like to ... to some hope but even though I think I realized that as the hours passed the hope diminishes on some we've spoken to an talking more about the dignity of finding a policy so that that person can have a final resting place of grave or possibly
But the authorities have already put some Fifteen or fourteen hundred people into mass graves and unless people come and playing the bodies very quickly
Then they say for reasons of hygiene and safety they have to bury them in ... that just adds to the tragedy or some people never really knowing what happened to the relatives
And that was the BBC's how courses in college city in Indonesia
[noise]
Now rising sea levels punishing droughts in life threatening heat waves these all the potential impacts of global warming and he's long been assumed that the west of them can be avoided it the increase in average temperatures is limited to two degrees
That target was spelled out in the Paris Agreement on climate change the un climate scientists now meeting in Korea
Are assessing new research that suggests that safe limit should actually be half a degree lower one point five degrees many of the world's most vulnerable countries so central to save them one of them is Vietnam oh science editor David ...
I'm In the ... delta in the south of Vietnam Atlanta rivers in canal that's very popular with tourists but the very things that make it so attractive will send make this region incredibly vulnerable to the effects of climate change [noise]
On the coast a few wooden beams ... through the way all that's left of homes now underwater to me ... delta is thinking and at the same time to see is rising as the world rooms ... to
... is the phone and some of these fields of vanished climate change is getting worse he says we didn't have time to build defenses level telephone
This region is one of the most important in the world to ... but
It's a sea level rise is salty water is reaching inland poisoning the soil
[noise] materials or local sons is professor
Zones and he is trying to form a simple but useful devices that you're going on now to fill a smooth buffalo was bullshit and then add a flood it sinks the will to fresh produce the rises to ... uh
How much that's what I hear it's such a ... very salty his that I thought they that's about like the will to a lot of the water yeah so you can't grow any rights and we cannot throw right yeah
Some farmers and actually given up front row row systematically pharmacy which is more tolerant salts fishy implications are serious I see a lot of
The international funds to agricultural development the un body has a big presence here but it's Vietnam director Thomas ... says the days of rice maybe over
This oil under threat to eighty percent of the rise that comes from this region goes into export so it's a big economic risk for
Them [noise] so what about the future [noise]
British were such a floral helps in their minds in a class of tenure she's from the University of how the most to explore attitudes to climate change well I'm
Really interested in it but it like in the flood the
Loans Oscar children with pictures of the results are alarming houses
It's reaching above the way
... in the world to a new sketches that go in a boat shouting
...
Another child was born in image of a giant snake ... why
Do they want to spend any time soon I think
It's a start cutting experience but ... says the children need to be ready to face the thing
They leaving them off the loud and then again I think ... they need to learn how to adopt and and that means any ... that they'll
Not because of all this Vietnam as one of several dozen countries
That look at the Paris Agreement on climate change and say it doesn't really go far enough that's because the agreements main target is to limit the rise in the global average temperature to two degrees
Vietnam another say that's too high they wanna lower target one and a half degrees and right now the UN's top climate scientists looking into whether this is going to be possible
That the b._b._c. science said it's a David Shipman reporting from Vietnam and if you want to read more about David time in the country can do so on the BBC website in particular about how children and young people that the see the threat of climate change [noise]
We're funded by you our listeners and by common threads weaving stories across time at the Gardner Museum see how artists redefine textile art through multimedia music and metal work through January thirteenth
Oxfam fighting for a future where one hundred percent of humanity has the same basic rights to end the injustice of poverty visit Oxfam America dot org slash one hundred
And ... Subaru with a large inventory of new and free on super ruse autumn of it all month route sixty in Belmont and its city side Subaru dot com
This is Ninety point nine WB you are we now break away from the BBC this morning for special live NPR coverage of the ... of Brett Kavanaugh nomination to the U.S Supreme Court
The weeks of talked about cabinet are about to peak on Capitol Hill as the Senate is expected to discuss a procedural vote on the nomination which could be an indicator of how the full Senate will go the full Senate vote could come tomorrow and now to NPR's coverage it's nine thirty this is W. B. you are






























This mutant bird is that a fair comparison well I actually
Don't think it's a fair comparison I'm Robert books nomination has been a sore point for Republicans now ever since it happened ever since he was defeated
And there's been a lot of academic studies now of the confirmation process and how Bork fared and the fact is that Bork went into his confirmation hearings with the votes to easily be confirmed
A liberal interests did have some ads against him ... and they were chump change compared to what the money to spend today I mean I think they mainly aired in Washington D.C.'s law that they would get written about by the likes of being mean um but
... views it turned out he answered the questions quite forthrightly he didn't have very strong and he had very strong views and quite as it turned out in the view of many Americans and their senators extreme view this
Case Kavanaugh has pulled his punches quite deliberately uh not quite said what is the U.S because actually
Correct so bored for example said he's sticking to his you that the one person one vote decision was wrong Kavanaugh or would not really express his views on almost anything he he would always say that Supreme Court precedent um I I as a judge had to follow the Supreme Court precedent or
Things like that so they're really they're not okay
Let me stop you there because Charles Grassley who's finished his speech and now Dianne Feinstein the equivalent Democrat on the ... of it has begun to remark was his last summer they
The ... Boston homo Boston's largest radio news from Ninety two point seven WB you wait just bury eight or nine point one W. B. U. H. Brewster and streaming or W. B. U. R. dot org W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR News
Station at four hours GMT welcome to the news or from the b._b._c. World Service I'm Alex roots some desperation in Indonesia beyond that I think for the future God willing we need to have more faith in ... and we hope the government will pay more attention to us to refugees
But the search for survivors of last week's ... quake will be cooled off on friday Britain accuses Russia's military intelligence services if
At four hours GMT welcome to the news from from the b._b._c. world set is I'm Alex roots and desperation in Indonesia beyond that I think for the future God willing we need to have more faith in ... and we hope the government will pay more attention to us to refugees
But just search for survivors of last week's nominee on death quake will be cooled off on friday Britain accuses Russia's military intelligence service of a campaign of cyber attacks against the west
Hello I'm Jerry Smith with the b._b._c. news Britain has accused Russia's military intelligence service the geo you of being behind a series of cyber attacks designed to undermine international stability the British foreign secretary condemned and sanctions as reckless and indiscriminate
There's been no response so far from Oscar ... reports
In recent years that are being ... attacks on organizations I start those to the world anti doping administrator ... and the Democratic party in the United states and the run up to the presidential elections in twenty sixteen
... groups with names like fancy bed AP twenty eight and send him were blamed now the u._k. national cybersecurity center says it's highly confident that all these groups are controlled by Russian military intelligence and the foreign secretary Jeremy Hunter Britain would work with allies to expose them and respond
Indonesia you know far to say though and search and rescue efforts on friday for survivors of last week so you know what I mean does quake that hit the island is sort of way see a correspondent held Griffiths says in the city of ... explains why
Just recognition of reality that that's what my dad was
A lawyer very very very much for the needs of the volume has his wife
That they have [noise] [noise] yeah I mean even slower guessing the right from the city I mean I've seen the packages arrive at the apple to see if I if I'm a driven off of the final able possible Roosevelt was somewhat rubble rely on the right
Somehow when I was on the the ... the bringing in more rights for the things that will be just as busy
At least fourteen hundred people were killed and the disaster at the U.S Senate is expected to receive the FBI's reports on allegations of sexual misconduct against President Trump's Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh in the next few hours and it's a Kevin uno denies the allegations from Washington his ...
FBI agents have spoken to a limited number of people that's part of this reopened background check into Brett Kavanaugh including Deborah Ramirez who claims Mr cabinet exposed himself to her party when they were college
Peoples who interviewed individuals' names by him and another of his accuser Christine Blasey Ford junior testimony to the Senate Judiciary committee last week Republicans and Democrats remain bitterly divided over his nomination to the Supreme Court's
More than two hundred million mobile phones in the U.S have received a test of it's from the federal government in the first trial or the system designed to notify citizens are bound to imagine says the message contained the ... presidential another and this is a test in capital letters and company by allowed alarm sound
The decision to send a letter to his made by the president's there's no way to home town of receiving the message
You're listening to the latest news from the BBC the wife of the former prime minister of lazy I'd ... brands that has been charged with Seventeen counts and money laundering and tax evasion as much of an investigation into hundreds of millions of dollars missing from the state fund ... pleaded not guilty
And proven to Mr ... sections began when he lost power in may
The foam a Peruvian president tell that to food you Marie has been taken to a clinic ... after a judge and noted pub and come to him last year no did his return to prison Mr ... mores lawyer says he suffers from heart problems and could die if send back to jail
To Fuji Maria was freed in December of two serving less than half of the twenty five year sentence for human rights abuses
Than oil for an American woman who has accused the football star Christie on the ...
And since she was in ... to come forward or the me too movement police have reopened an investigation into the claim by Katherine my yoga that here talk to in a hotel room a lawyer Lesley ... explained why she decided to speak out
The ... the women who have disclosed muscles probably has a lot of British too [noise] so it was the most was you
Know to strongly denies the allegations
But don't you probably broke up so I said is controversial Christmas current a blank piece will no longer repair at an annual festival with the block to face in their free week critics say ... traditional gossip is a crude racial stereotype
Supporters say the characters faces dotted with food from hoping Santa Claus to deliver presidents don't trim news from this year ... was ... on his face
BBC News
You're listening to the newsroom from the b._b._c. World Service was me Alex words we saw in Indonesians
Beyond one up on your show love listening for the future do we need to have more faith in ... and we hope the government will pay more attention to really like rap genius
At least fourteen hundred people announcement are being killed in last week's quake that hit the ...
The mother figure is likely to rise to say this on Fridays and the search and rescue effort for possible survive as a correspondent Rebecca ... joined us
Rebecca is this premature
[noise] well it has been now six days since the disaster and looking at
The ground that has been completely ... sit by the hour of that quake and tsunami in some of the devastation that lied on top of the houses that collapsed hotels and the harder
It is fairly unlikely that anyone would still be left alive
The teams are stretched and the government's reasoning use their resources
To help those that date survive but it has been an incredibly slow search and rescue operations in many places I think it's being the families themselves because they are trying desperately with their hands always said that
To take out people who are trapped underneath most finding forties but in some place is like the roller roller hotel they did manage to arrest you around seven equal from that hotel and that was largely on ice bowl and she is one meant to leap who we spoke to arrive said
On the first day and he was in his hand going into the rubble and pulling people out even though there was strung out to shock continuing to be pretty ... and he was putting a line in the race that
So I think there's a lot of frustration here that the government hasn't done a no
On the stool places where the rescue effort has barely started
[noise] there's places that haven't touched it oil elaborated woman yesterday at the airport has said
That in her ... which is being completely flattened by the Saddam me no aid has reached that feel each and she said that they've been sitting out in the ... they're running out of ... they are they running out of there and she decided to make a desperate
Attempt to walk into college get H. heard from someone that the military was blind people out on a flight
So along with that that's for young children she walks through the mountains that ten days that to reach the airport when I met said we had some also with Aaron gave that to the children and that was that the drink that they had the yesterday
[noise] Rebecca think your correspondent Rebecca Hinch cuts in subtle ways the
British Government has accused Russian military intelligence the G R U of being behind a series of cyber attacks in the United kingdom which you know you is also alleged to be responsible for the nerve agent poisoning
And ... in the city of ... in March the BBC's Caroline rugby has more Russia
Stands accused of state sponsored cyber attacks targeting political institutions businesses media and sports
Will constricted by its military intelligence service the geo you
Is now being an old ... has been taken to a clinic with his lawyers saying he could die if he was sent back to jail I go more details from our America's editor Candace pet
This an element of his punting came as a real surprise in Peru the judge announced he uh no this part and that was drawn to see if you Mari last year and he said that it's being drawn to it for medical reasons but it lacks legal foundation that these it'd be pushed
Through too quickly and he also said that to Mr ... should not have been freed ... as he didn't suffer a terminal illness which is one of the reasons given his
It's been one of those really surprising stories in Peru
But the problem was extremely contentious because he was a very divisive character wasn't it
Yes this pardon was highly criticized at the time they were allegations that the president a federal public ... the former president you gave in the pot him
I'd made it a political deal it came three days off Timothy ... survived an impeachment votes in Congress with the help of food you more support is
In the Congress and the promoted large street protests and outrage particularly amongst the relatives of victims of human rights abuses who had been affected by Mr foods you mores a dictatorial
Government so Mr foods you Maury was released from jail at least in part because his political influence was still stronger now it looks that he could be on the way back to China where does this leave per well more than a
Quarter century since leaving office former presidents ... family continues to set the political agenda and through his daughter leads the country's most powerful opposition party his son his suit to challenge her leadership is that fathers political follow as
I'm an eye on Sunday we have local ... elections in Peru and it's very lightly these two powerful leaders this family ah like each make political capital loss of this and Riley that's the porches and try to make gains
Around the ... that that that father is back in jail already the door to cake out is suggesting that ruling was political persecution against the foods you mores so the foods you Mari ...
Rear up that had from time to time and put it in politics in Peru
Police in America often in the spotlight accused of abusing that power but there is a disturbing trend that rarely gets talked about a huge number of those injured and killed by us police each year
Have a disability and North America correspondent Alina ... has been investigating why so many people with serious mental illness learning different ... learning difficulties or physical impairment a dying at the hands of the police you may find some parts of his report distressing
Is your last chance we need you know opening up or just want to make sure you're okay [noise] and then you see a
Police break into the apartment of Adam ... get forensic after ... Milwaukee reported having a breakdown and had been wandering outside his front door naked
And then we just want to make sure you know
When they find him Adams taking a shower what happens next is court on one of the police body cameras and is extremely distressing
To get paid and
We're not um doesn't respond to the command shelter that ... the police he's given and they're ...
[noise] you know
For the next ten minute Adam but Brendan as they were sheltering gets more distressed screams all the more desperately but gets caves to many many more times he's dragged out of his apartment and injected with a sedative but moments later twenty two year old Adam stops breathing and he's
[noise] he's not ready to
His parents Kathleen in Lowry who have been left devastated
Where even in danger there was that [noise]
And then he'll make his suffer like that [noise] there's always that all [noise] he didn't deserve that oh
He's in a bath tub notes or he's already had copyrights have Fifteen tied his land in a tough guy
Adam became part of a disturbing trend that rarely gets talked about that a staggering proportions at least twenty five percent of the hundreds of people killed by police in the U.S every year
I have a mental physical or intellectual disability of course all police here I'm an often face criminals who well but for many reasons so many disabled people killed is because officers often employee command and control method of policing
In
Shelton commands and taking control particularly when someone does she play except they're offering reasons we can play
A lot with your hands [noise]
Married trauma again there's
Times when you know you couldn't touch Adam he got really draw he'd get up
I cited you know what I meant so always knew when I dealt with Adam is to stay back from them and let them talk he had
That on his than it is if the if I went in there and just use my authority as a ... I'm your father this is it just didn't work I had to have time with them
Very fills the police could not have done his job [laughter]

His death could not be conclusively link the actions of the officers involved he said they had acted in good faith and had in fact in trying to help after like getting in medical attention
Although it's hit or miss around the country in some police forces that has been a drive to offer more training on how best to join the stem disability
That campaign is fair that unless there's a fundamental change in the way police operate in the U.S with the escalating interactions is truly the focus than
Those who are disabled will keep on dying this way
And that was just passed of an investigation from out of North America correspondent Ali ... you can download and listen to the fool radio documentary don't shoot I'm disabled on BBC World service assignment or our website BBC World service dot com slash assignment
Jury has some other stories from our news desk
You know certainly in government says it's banking Britain's accusation that Russian intelligence has been working to undermine western democracies
In his statements prime ministers called Morrison said based on advice from partners and allies the government's is determined the Russian military and intelligence um GI you was responsible for a passing malicious cyber activity
Saudi Arabia says it's investigating the disappearance of the Saudi journalist who went missing in Istanbul on Tuesday Jim ... a prominent come and critic who lives in self imposed exile in the U.S there's no ... entering the Saudi consulates he'd be posted it went that to obtain an official document for his marriage
So does it say Ron SBA news agency says the ... is working with local authorities to uncover the mystery of Mr ... parents after he left the premises
And officials in the usa to South Carolina say one police officer was shot dead in six others injured when they confronted a man holding a number of children hostage at a house in the city of Florence the attack has surrendered to police officer to al standoff
Astronomers from Columbia University in New York have announced the possible discovery of the moon outside a similar system the object which lies eight thousand light years away could be the first site called ... moon ever found his son support to pull wrinkled
Sofa astronomers have discovered more than three and a half thousand planets orbiting distant stars beyond the solar system it stands to reason many of these kind of would also be betrayed by moons
Astronomical objects that circle planet but because of this ... thanks so moving sibling good just beyond our ability to detect Mitt telescopes now that may have changed a British ... David kicking and his American colleague onyx chi chi
... based evidence yet ... be on ... neighborhoods observations without the telescopes justice ... minutes about the size of niche you
Know bits of planets around the size of Jupiter the huge size isn't something astronomers had predicted but researchers say the distinctive signal from Hubble has survived every test they can come up with
... other ... to help confirm it
Full wrinkle on with that report plenty more as always in the global news podcast which is available to download in all the usual ways but for now thanks for listening to this edition of Sunnis from
Distribution of the b._b._c. World Service in the U.S has made possible by American public media
Producer and distributor of award winning public radio contest eight PM American public meetings with support from either why should Craig bourbon handcrafted in small batches for a full flavored sipping experience
Forty seven percent alcohol by volume few lives you're crazy Kentucky straight bourbon whiskey large town Kentucky think wisely drink wise [noise]
From Boston University this is not the point nine W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR News station with the latest news and analysis
At the new our dog or [noise]
This is Charlie cold days in sports ruined started their season with the seven nothing beat down from the Capitol last night in Washington the Yankees beat the Oakland Athletics seven to two in the American league wildcard game in New York mostly cloudy overnight lows in the upper fifties mostly cloudy and warmer Thursday and ties in the mid seventies
Some have suggested for us to kind of have this code data part-time voices which means land or the pilot [noise]
Which is really reach for when he played it last night and it is really moving it's like a shout out to all the the guy in a Africa is a GOOD Music and the poetry in the region
And then we are bringing all lined up ... say that I've got these really ancient old books of British ballads and fight ballots but then I met it is I just paid for by the bank likely to be under this guy or something related to like fourteen hundred [noise]
They sit in the hiring of our sons I we do to bring something very specific to collaborate with would be quite a good thing is how the two coaches working together and then
To find them all the way for them to fat is the kind of question but we we were playing around with it than I Am and thinking I was a very strong and they found it already nights I
Will say um she's you know I mean I'm I'm I'm a ...
Or so on and
So we they own
... Venus my sweet is small
...
We really aim to be able to that I ended up with other cultures and I think the propose that
Present to a a Johnny Was really appropriate UTA by and yet it's come to her I did manage yeah I also she thought the collaboration with what they brought their traditional music all the music the folk music
To to make a dialogue with ours note the I think it's really appropriate it's really a challenge because these people up the group
Really started to read a BA chill fifty maybe
So it's not not the scene because our Asian we owe the person that also goes to a Facebook in computer to every each mean it but we've a collaboration with the person that eat more from the from the ...
And I think the sees the big
Challenge I think that it's something that can awake a sense of belonging for us the sense of respect to our heritage and I think that I don't know I always felt that the one that people really liked that foreigners to come and tells you OK that's sort of nice so you feel proud and
I think the dialogue for music is vital to keep it alive
To keep up to keep pushing forward
So we're learning a lot from producers or come from England that comes from
Other parts of the world and I'm sure you guys are learning to like to read 'em so now or a diversity music [noise]
Go to my heart is
Probably the major there you go ... or more to this party [noise] accepting of all I'm In my heart of the voting to make sure they go
Through the [noise] the seeds of all the

Things Johnny out like really not connection to folk music from Ireland and and the British like tradition of folk music
So I think that's sort of sensitivity is would connect a human being and I'm sure they will understand that and we will come out with something that it's nice for you guys and that also enjoyable for the people here in Colombia or uh
Do you think you have to have a kind of inherent in the wind
Music making or a confident
In trying to turn out to be the guy on an order the ... the law and they're like without any what were the type of all the ... have the ... you have to be quite open
Yeah you have to be open and
Parts of well I Am a more I Do and what my history the musician is about to turn out with my ... I'm Johnny English from paper when I'm a veteran
Primary familiar experiences that that can happen like with me I don't know like with a new coach there by heart from watching them play last night you kind of
Got sent that Barry ... to ... and that kind of vows you got ... I'm I'm the people that you may hair
You know that really are and then they want it and I you know they wanted me either want to show you what
That about I mean I don't know what will happen I go to our war or not the ... thing about the whole time friday [noise]
I'm
Getting a canny this is the sound of the ... and we're in Bogota, Colombia with Johnny plan [noise]

Say here I Am regret goatee I Do with the ... that could be the asked an act but
He's a journalist he's run a record label he'd spent time living in Mexico and now he's back in Bogota you love it that you're right we
Found ourselves here in a very particular and I kind of place in the city this is a medical ... don't you give up into like internationals their center
They tell me what people are a thing was there
Some cultures are very like
There to say that is the most Colombian dish ever which is a stalk
It can be made of chicken if it would be made of
Red meat it can be made a fish
Then you put in like different types of potatoes you get do ... do ...
And lots of local like ingredients like mixed up inside of this through
A link to the lawyer laying up the chain hair and if and when we we
Yeah that I get some point the income coming in and the ... because of the rain
And that particular dish in love with this weather very well because you can bring this not only its own and it's good for the cold weather
On on the side you can have like the rise it will tell you that you can everything that they're that she can
It can be symbolic of how some of the music is made in right yeah
You can see the mixture of cultures
Friends in music in in the local
He ... is like a melting pot for every every one of these like different for them to do with
Energy and life and I get that may not know when it comes to eating it's quite important law Colombian I
Really like the food gives live to everything we do
In in the way that
It recognizes the different events that happened here in the in in in the whole country again [noise]
I like that that that is not particularly a time to talk to people that come there was
Also the people from different walks of life than yeah the humor you can
Find like hornets Vogel as a citizen of launch on a friday
It's not
Like oh yeah oh did you talk to a musical ... from Bogota he's combination of both claw and contemporary music has been ... did they do get it across South America
That someone that
I was ... it might not get ... on CNN
Or we're less on you and your body when sisters group we make music based on different types of music and bald mostly influenced by Latin American music
I Would like to know why it's important to you as young women they connect theory
When it comes to making me that
Clinic ... raises ... then ... then a lot of the human luckily the more
... it is almost natural through this cover on er on Syria was water father used to play in the house so in a way it's very organic it's very organic and we feel like well what they are home and we're making music that represents his feelings you know where where do you
Think ... in times of the need the scene at the moment how would you describe
At its when I look up what gives ... they they try to move the
Bullets that is not a nice breeze strange because in Columbia actually itself is a very diverse country and you've been feeling the music from the city that it comes from like
... from the heart study says British ensue music so you can find the music from the Pacific coast
Music from from the mountains around this region from upper north and the all comes from different variations here to work or or two in the in the purest form but it all like blends here in the city
[noise]

Home of Boston's largest radio news rooms do points up W. B. U. H. is very eighty nine point one WVU wage Brewster and streaming WVU our dog or W. B. U. R. Boston's MPR news station [noise]
Can continue to say on the BBC well seven counties shop and Lawrence part [noise]
Coming up in Britain says the Russian government is directly behind a global campaign of cyber attacks on everything from political institutions the free press to sporting events
As rescue struggle to meet your milk and devastated communities in Indonesia aid groups launched a new appeal to help the one and a half million people who've been affected
Will be hitting them unless you have to talk about the rest of the country's former first lady that charges connected to billions of missing ... will be mentioned on the show
And then in ... son took stressed about he's founded opposed to rock and roll the died two years ago
He told me in a delicate moment when we were working together the work invites you into your
Own inner life because it takes the inner life series after the need to [noise]
[noise] hello Jerry ... with the b._b._c. news
Britain has accused Russia's military intelligence service the geo you of being behind a series of cyber attacks around the world in recent years designed to undermine international stability
Among the heck's blamed on the Russian agency or one against the British television station as well as the U.S democratic polity is being no response from Moscow golden corral ripple
National cyber security sense of ... it has high confidence the degree ... belonging to the G all you often noticed ... was almost certainly responsible for a series of cyber attacks previous attacking June twenty Seventeen which cripple businesses around the world
Linked to the G are you in a statement the foreign secretary Jeremy Hunter said did you use actions were reckless and indiscriminate and that together with allies the u._k. would expose and respond to the gym or use attempts to undermine the international stability
Engineers you know authorities say they'll end search and rescue efforts on friday from survivors of last week's ... quake that hit the island is who the way see at least fourteen hundred people were killed and a disaster the BBC's Rebecca ... is on the island
Around that is being completely sit by the hour that quake and tsunami than the devastation that lied on top of the holidays they collapse it is fairly unlikely that anyone would be ... I live
In a stretch and it got to see how that aid survive
The U.S Senate is expected to receive the FBI's reports on allegations of sexual misconduct against President Trump's Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh in the next few hours
Agents interviewed some of those names during testimony given last week by the judge and Christine lousy food he's accused him of sexual assault he denies the allegations for his bunker has more details
They have certainly spoken to some people who could be potential witnesses
Including a man called mark judge he was a childhood friends of Brett Kavanaugh who Christine Blasey Ford claims was in the room whenever she was sexually assaulted
So we understand the FBI is also spoken to a second woman is accused Brett Kavanaugh of sexual misconduct but frankly at this stage there is a lot we do know about this FBI reports on the Senate says are waiting to see exactly for instance side that
The wife of the former Malaysian prime minister Najib ... has been charged with money laundering and tax evasion and it's part of an inquiry into hundreds of millions of dollars missing from a state some known as one MD be Ross ... months old treated not guilty to Seventeen challenges as it could include the ...
World news from the BBC the lawyer for an American woman who has accused the football star Christie on every note of raping her nine years ago says she was in boat him to come forward by me too movement
The military told a news conference in Las Vegas the actions of other women had given the courage to Portuguese for ... has strongly denied attacking Katherine my yoga in a hotel room
Saudi Arabia's says it's investigating the disappearance of the Saudi journalist who went missing in assembled on Tuesday
... a prominent govern critic who lives in self imposed exile in the U.S is not being seen since entering the Saudi conflict he'd be soon as they went there to obtain an official document for his marriage
Officials in the usa to South Carolina say one police officer was shot dead and six others injured when they come from to the man holding children hostage at her home in the city of Florence
The attackers surrender to police officer to a standoff he's identity motive remain on class
More than two hundred million mobile phones in the U.S had received a test to lead from the federal government and the first trial of a system designed to notify citizens about to imagine says the message containing the word presidential lead and this is a test in capitalist has come to buy a loud sound
They need reports from San Francisco
The alarm went off loudly it was difficult to avoid even popping up on some smart watches
The alerts is controlled by the U.S federal emergency management agency and it's designed to be used in the event of a serious problem such as a nuclear attack or an act of terror
But some suggested the power of a direct almost unavoidable message from the president could be abused one lawsuits to block the test cooling it government compelled listening not request was refused by a judge in New York
The b._b._c. news [noise]
Like sort of like just welcome now's the Newsday with Lawrence comedy series of aliases ... pull installed block energy it's old the Russian military intelligence say the British But should we be surprised
Will certainly laziest queen of bling is arrested the wife of the form of ... I'm working with the famous father Leonard Cohen son took to the BBC about the final days in the final books of the great to folk rock sing a whole lot coming up plus the sport and the business hero Newsday [noise]
We stopped in Indonesia where rescue black is beginning to slow down his ethics switched to getting relief to the million and a half people affected more and then add more than one thousand four hundred people have been confined dead end
Sending destructive waves barreling into sort of ... speak tell correspondent as David Becca ... is in Palo Rebecca just tell us what's the latest
[noise] well search and rescue teams say that as of friday the ... each week they will call
The search for finding any more survivors in the rubble of collapsed buildings hero trapped in homes that were of that
My mom and rubble that means that they will be able to sell you concentrate more on looking off to the survivors and I'm Still trying to get the
... area up in these mass graves in here with our entry now into the six day at the city have no power no clean drinking water people move around the city very evacuation camps looking for lost is one
Noticeable that being pulled out and that hopefully with boats are handwritten note desperate mother's trying to find children children try and uh uh they have
Across the city and outside of ... there are many areas that haven't received any I eat or that old I met a woman at the airport yesterday
Had ten hours with the ... mountains to reach the ... ...
Says things in her village as so bad that she thought that was the only option she could take and they hadn't found anything as in yesterday
I mean that sounds quite us aside your back and just listening to that you know this new age you said and people walking long distance is not sufficient aged it sounds chaotic does the government then need more support
It definitely needs most of the cold I think he's struggling to cope with this is just the logistics of this place that I mean people whose ... nominees and I've covered many natural disasters in Egypt and this is particularly challenging because of the way that the disaster
Has title these area from anywhere else this area is almost out of Petro people having to white in huge out
Get it and people are having to drive like six hours before they can get a supplies and bring them in that make me quit code the airport only just opened yesterday in the military be now but to bring in I
Now by big cargo planes coming in at reaching ... that they really just out
From ... haven't seen any help they cut off a road comedy in a landslide to help is needed and it will be needed for the many months to calm people's houses completely destroy
And I'm thinking of investors to point some ... billion US dollars over the course of the next twelve years seven hundred and fifty million US dollars going in Raleigh top front in order to help the expand the business
Now a little earlier on I was speaking with Josh ... steam who is the editor at large of tech crunch over in San Francisco and I said to him the first two ways of spinning the story we could all have to say wow this is amazing self driving cars on the ones who invests all this money and get into this marketplace
Oh we could turn on his head and we could say what is it about General Motors that they've said a ... percent ... nervous about the self driving cars maybe we need some help you with some extra money so I said to him which we should we take this story here's what he said
I think the Honda is trying to get involved in this knowing this is the future of transportation GM really made a forward thinking investment by acquiring cruise a few years ago for just a billion dollars and
Already it's clear that there's going to be a lot more money invested in this but at the same time ... Honda wants to get into the business world GM wants to accelerate it because there's so many other players including Google revving up their own autonomous car divisions
But when you're a company as big as GM with pockets as deep as GM what do you need home to fool
Factors that this needs to be a global roll out the real successive of autonomy vehicles and electric vehicles will
Be when they replaced cars around the world and some Honda's advantage
And their partnership could really help GM to make sure that those cars getting into Asia
And that it doesn't have to worry about hunter spending of its own division and competing for it for the Asian market boys home to some late to the game here
A lot of people just weren't sure how long it would take these vehicles to develop
There was certainly early progress years ago but the question was also how would regulators view this but increasingly
The governments are realizing that human drivers are not very safe and so moving towards ... vehicles even though there might be some high profile crashes and fatalities should save a lot of wives and so suddenly with the government support
That innovation is moving a lot faster
Many self driving cars are underway at various different common factors who's in the lead at the moment
Many believe that Google's way mo is in the ... they've been doing an incredible amount of testing their
Engineering based company who's really created parsing
Campus to try out their own cars for years now and so there's a lot of their approach which is go directly to bully economist vehicles rather than some midpoint where the human driver might have to suddenly take control and done with Tesla system
That that would be a lot safer to actually just bypass that middle ground and go straight to bully autonomy scars with the driver doesn't have to be relied on to do anything
Just ... a vet tech crunch really took care about them he thinks this is a very exciting and he said fully autonomous actually three times the deeds telling them as it goes as opposed to self driving cars
Defends depends on how technical you'll feeling at the time is where you are in the world if you just woken up like most people out here in London you're probably want to stick with self driving cars and thank you
For coming up to twenty four minutes past the hour we'll welcome this county and Lawrence with a new state we going to uh we were recently mocking the passing a ripe old age offered incredible career Leonard Cohen
A Canadian singer songwriter which general office and he spent his final months compiling a collection of poetry lyrics pros and drawings cause the men had many talents
And the talent stretch back over six decades his son Adam Cohen will send musician himself who worked with dad lend a on the final album is now written a piece a forward to a book bringing all our collection of works together not said it it will ... down with them
Than they
Do you listen to or most of his poems there's a kind of six eight three four meter to them was always working steady but I never called it are you pretty much break that down on any stance of his because that's how we heard if you were hearing it in six eight where the melody
Win
This title the flame why the flame
I named the book because my old man had always had the theme of fire in his life and he himself was in my estimation of this flame that burned in the world and uh it was the spark that was keeping them alive with
That is what Britain putting it altogether because the flame isn't just recent work and it stretches back six decades into his notebooks into his lyrics into his ideas into his thoughts did he have a sense how he he he for people to engage with his ...
I'm struck by something that he told me in a delicate moment when we were working together he said
The work invites you into your own inner life because it takes the inner life seriously what he was saying is I'm speaking from the truest rung of my life you know I Know I'm an eighty something year old man I'm not saying baby baby baby ooh
[noise] if you
Wish you the reason why my contemporaries are not as as a potent of all places on is that they're
Kind of ... they're kind of ... or some position that they think is worthy of their audience or you know resembles place that they carved out for themselves whereas I'm really really taking this seriously
If a child was in when he was putting this book together just in his last month what was the editorial idea running through his head so there's three records worth
Of songs that's thirty pounds or so that hadn't been actually published in a book of poetry than there was the fact that he was acutely aware that the end was approaching and there was this sort of final sense of responsibility to offer up what he referred to me privately as a meaty installment
And that was rather touching moment when he
Got in contact with Marianne of the he's talking about an hour lover when she was dying and saying you have fewer stretch out your hand you can feel mine yes but but but me to think of the time and and now to can choose what was his relationship with the with the notion of that
I think he was more at ease with it than the rest of us mere mortals I think that's often would delineate it's great minds from the others
I won't say he felt comfortable because he was cute pain can discomfort at the end of his life
And I do know that this book of poetry did by him quite a bit of time here among us he really was staying alive it's the very purpose of his uh of his life was to serve finished this book and to
Leave the world I'm more tidy
[laughter] on rice or like many times for him going around during the world doing the numbers was a pleasure of pain [noise]
How
That was scrapped and sat with him on the corner of wills from Nebraska at a Starbucks
And I said that type of scrapping the record and I'm starting over in the ... to ... any any leaned over to me and said Adam that's an amateur move and he says you know Adam it's about how you feel about the album was work it's about how you make them see [noise]
He says you you think you know Mick Jagger feels I Can't get no satisfaction you know every night after fifty years you think I feel hallelujah every night you know that's not what
We're doing we're making them feel that's our responsibility Adam ... thank you very much for joining us and sharing your thoughts about your father
Suppose well he's talking about others the curse of rushing a conflict because if you're right the classic you have to play it and play it played a put a nice justification that from coming into some out I'm concerned that ultimately it's not for you it's for the people that was Adam ... speaking to
We'll go and buy the book of poetry frozen drawings great Canadian sooner [noise]

[noise] distribution of the b._b._c. World Service in the U.S has made possible by American public media producer and distributor of award winning public radio contact eight PM American public media with support from for X. dot com empowering traders to seize opportunities and currency markets since Nineteen Ninety nine
For X. dot com it's your World Trade it for X trading involves significant risk of all [noise]

[noise] from Boston University this is Ninety point nine W. B. U. bar Boston is NPR News station with live streaming at W. B. U. R. dot org ...
This is Charlie cold haze in sports the Bruins started their season with the loss of they were shut out seven zip at the hands of the reigning Stanley Cup champion capitals in Washington
Your ... which is a representative of the neighborhood residents association which works with the local pharmacy and please to try to help the street children
You always want to you know shock to me is that every they refused how they refused to be has to compare the winds up those incentives are homes that really difficult to deal with and the homes come up with them because they are very very violent
Police arrest the teenagers if they caught stealing some of the older ones are being detained or jailed which officials say the younger children aren't helped along for minor offenses because they're under age
Mr ... beliefs thousands of Moroccan and Algerian children are wondering like this around European cities to some folks will penalty to
Hardly move by the ... took over my old boss alone a tomorrow UC nuance arriving all the time but it's difficult to walk without a doubt really knew of the F ... true here before the ... of these children traveling around Europe
Social workers say street children you give to Sweden except to help more readily than those in Spain from fringe officials acknowledge that they're still struggling to find an effective approach to what they say is a ...
[noise] [laughter]
[noise]
And that said David ... reporting from Paris that [noise]
Have you learned some ... on the way you remember the filled with the beautiful beach it was called the beach with Leonardo DiCaprio so many people want to do that thing and visit my a beach that it's being closed to everyone initially for months but now it's just been announced it definitely
What we want to know if the beach can ever recovered pretty horrible finding out what is the the washes up all sorts of things um but it will be finding out a little bit more later in the program and also ... stay tuned for a show that's on the way to Broadway from the Kenyan national
But have you been to the beach then okay
I have the headlines this morning the British Government has blamed the needs of international cyberattacks on Russia's ministry intelligence that is
The authorities in Indonesia say such with survive as often as quick and ... that's already known to have ... fourteen hundred people will end on friday
And the FBI report in President Trump's Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh is expected to be handed to the U.S Senate in the coming hours and an American women who've accused the football at Christianity knowledge of rape has told she was inspired to come forward
By the me too movement and more on sports now is not [noise]

Twenty first coach to run late last night between ... and Barcelona in the European champions league and it was a Spanish visitors who came out on top focus try to buy one man
It the messy why wouldn't you messy that strategy audio run unless I have tried it across
Border from what I don't
Boss is not ... proponent of the federal by both sets of finds out when the stadium eighty two thousand people
Congratulating him for a wonderful performance it's a result which has Boston tied with inter Milan at the top of that group with two wings out to turn which across leaves spurs appears to be ... they were beaten by into stranded without to points so far but the talking to manage emergency airport you to know has not given up hope of making progress
To winning to play for games on the news we're going to have you know we're going to be or not the next station but of course we'd be tough because I Know he's a must win games are getting pursuing in ... of course in Barcelona in Brazil don't
Of course would be tough for books thinking the same the who the oldest is ...
One of the line from ... honey recommend you watch the ghost message over history worth watching but also even rocket to choose really court to strike
Or the other headlines from European football ... late twin I live a pool and puts them on top of that pool by a single point from last season's be confined miss
The ripple boss you can talk sent his team had to take some of the blame a full conceding late going in the Ninety minutes a mole concerns for the reds it was confirmed off to the game the Canadian midfield and not be tied to
Have to be taken to a hospital after being carried off with a back injury and the first half way up to you on his condition as and when we are able to
Uh just behind them in the pool the same ... bumping six one victory or infrared style Belgrade and elsewhere I burst dormant an excellent I went over monetary for email for them
Then the Africa confederation cup the continents second string competition for clubs Roger Casablanca and I asked reach our club have the advantage off the first like masters in the semifinals ties
To Russia secured a valuable away victory over ... by an ad by winning one near loaded with the people's ... to give themselves a find chunks of progressing to the final and the other guy in the outcome goes to prop held on my free of Egypt to go on a stroll around with a five match winning run in this competition back home in Kinshasa
They will be confident of going for him to the final second McMaster's later this month and then the Asian champions league semifinal first like court tonight for ... cheetah of Japan's ... and plus he scored an early own goal and then match with shoe on blue wings of South Korea
And his team then went to nail down off to just six minutes in the game bucks they mounted a remarkable comeback and the winning strike three minutes and just jumping each time we go by none other than the shooter himself to make it three to ... [noise]
Matthew thinking now it's still that up to the south Africa's scientist leave the continent for job opportunities elsewhere
And may just a a group of academics basically from around the globe is taking part in a project to help reduce the skills drain one of them end up to feed ... ... ... he's a senior lecturer in the department of English ending listed as mistakes at ... University in Kenyan she tried to sell up to the program dumps I'm just going to
Be looking at those numbers if that is it's twenty thousand scientists yet that is a high number why are they leave and is it exclusively because of natural but you didn't he's elsewhere
Or if it's all it's all the false one will know about what's it called it calls
False sleep is your biggest fall why ... ... ... loan me oh
Indeed walk if they saw me all age they just all it is what motivation shit
... ... we're all looking for ... ... ... ... skating on issues such as you also talk show ... among all
Right so some of the factors as to why they leave let's get to that is it because of war because of political instability higher pay what is it
So much for the ... on on most days it all goes as local April ... ... ... ...
... last fall on both lost all
Over the last decade okay don't you feed it
And while she because the line isn't very clear that thank you for joining us and she has is basically pump gas a group of academics hoping kit biggies science skills same because about around twenty thousand scientists need African ... physique that can't continue he's in the pumps the wild
Technical infrastructure to see a problem when you say yeah yeah ah ten minutes to the ... the head of this is news they
Are going to talk about loving something pretty much the desk now one of the most famous speeches in the world
It featured in the film of the same name of the beach or from two thousand which stunt Leonardo DiCaprio it's an amazing beach it's sort of crystal clear waters with
Beautiful kind of I think the vote ... all around a nickel the sci fi items and the beaches called Miami Beach are so many hundreds of thousands of tourists a full load in the footsteps of the film um
The to the beach which is pretty tiny older you don't really aware of that because obviously the camera lies
A has been whether it was shot for four months is not going to be ... in definitely adult to kind of robots is professor of marine conservation at the University of your
Study coral reefs and they were involved in this particularly for decades and joins us now I don't care if it's would you give us an idea how how badly affected as it being this isn't just a case of kind of does he want to it's affecting the life of the coral on the beaches well tell us how well
That's right yes this is a very enclosed space so it's a quaint narrow in deep and or inside the pay there are some ... ambulance car reached one of the richest ecosystems on the planet but car racer incredibly sensitive and can easily be left to death is the use of them is to intensive so
And streaming W. B. U. R. dot or W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR News station [noise]
Hello I'm Jordan dumb bar
And on a scenic now and this is the thought show on the BBC ...
In today's program we find out the awful truth behind the viral murder for their
Initially the government for Canada in ... as clear as fake news [noise] and what's the life expectancy ever spent five pie that you're in the back of the person really just for weeks
On the British side few nearly three thousand men losing nearly six hundred from allies such as Poland New Zealand Canada in Czechoslovakia
Also why do we sometimes lose compassion
That have to do with ... images from near ... just everywhere and with all that noise going on sometimes it's hard to find a way to connect with a huge story
Not throwing the third show off to me [noise]
[noise]
Hello I'm Jerry ... toward the b._b._c. news Britain has accused Russia's military intelligence service the geo you think behind a series of cyber attacks designed to undermine international stability the British foreign secretary condemned sanctions as rex has been under reports
In recent years that are being ... attacks on organizations as diverse as the world anti doping administrator ... and the Democratic party in the United states and the run up to the presidential elections in twenty sixteen
How could groups with names like fancy bed a PTA twenty eight and send more blamed now the u._k. national cybersecurity center says it's highly confident that all these groups are controlled by Russian military intelligence and the foreign secretary Jeremy Hunter Britain would work with allies to expose them and respond
Indonesian authorities say they'll end search and rescue efforts on friday for survivors of last week's ... quake hit the island to see the way see at least fourteen hundred people were killed in the desert to Canada unholy reports
Six days since the island of ... or send us an army the international aid after this gathering pace
Aid workers say entire community to being destroyed tens of thousands of people to be made him this and this and get some desperate survive as that it's taken so long for help to arrive the priorities ageless is to reach a nice couch often ready temperatures were destroyed open up by landslides
The U.S Senate is expected to receive the FBI's reports on occasions of sexual misconduct against President Trump's Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh within hours
Agents interviewed some of those names during testimony given last week by the judge and Christine Blasey Ford who accuses him of sexual assault Deborah Ramirez who says Mr Kevin ... exposed himself to attend college policy was among those questions he denies the allegations
Than oil for an American woman who has accused the football star Christie under an odor of raping had nine years ago since the actions of other women had to indulge in how to come forward the football as strongly denies assaulting Katherine my yoga in Las Vegas James Cook reports
In my yard as lawyer said his client was not able to face the cameras because she was fine child frightened and suffering from post traumatic stress disorder and depression
Leslie ... said miss my only found the courage to make her story public because of the me too movement of women who had stood up until their stories of sexual assault
Christian over now do denies raping costs
Las Vegas hotel in two thousand nine she filed a police report soon after the alleged attack miss my yoga also wants to another twenty ten deal with the football or in which she was reportedly paid three hundred and Seventy five thousand US dollars not to speak about the case
Well news from the BBC
The wife of the former lazy and prime minister Najib Brazil has been charged with money laundering and tax evasion as part of an inquiry into hundreds of millions of dollars missing from the state fund known as one empty be Ross ... months old treated not guilty to Seventeen charges medical would include them for
Saudi Arabia's says it's investigating the disappearance of a journalist and outspoken government critic who went missing in Turkey on Tuesday you know ... hasn't been seen since entering the Saudi conflict and assemble moving so just six hours ago grown ferret reports
In a statement carried on Saudi Arabia's official news agency the country's ... said it was working with a Turkish authorities to uncover Mr ... whereabouts off that he left the building with turkey has made it clear that it believes Mr ... is still inside the consulates
His fiance and friends say this certain he's being held the
International press freedom groups have expressed concerns and his safety the Washington Post newspaper for which Mr ... has written articles that it would be outrageous if he'd been detained because of his journalistic work
A delegation from the U.N Security council will visit can show and the Democratic Republic of Congo and Thursday hoping to meet president Joseph Kabila ahead of elections in December
Britain from from the United states a soldier Sharon says from President can be let that he will not seek a third term hearing it could trigger violent clashes he has voted to oppose any interference [noise]
More than two hundred million mobile phones in the U.S have received it tested out from the federal government and the first trial the system designed to notify citizens about emergencies the message contained the ... presidential load and this is a test in capital letters the company by allowed along sound
There's no way to opt out of receiving the message
BBC News [noise] [noise]
Hello this is the third show on the b._b._c. World Service with me Jordan's on bar and with me Lizzie McNeil in today's program can we get to a point where we become desensitized to other people's problems plus is it true that is spent
Five pilots life expectancy in the back of the person was there any for
Weeks but first a nice ... and told me all of the boat looking to hire a BBC Africa I investigation exposed the truth about viral murder video
Willing to talk about violence events and what you're about to hit us some very distressing details and sounds from the very beginning of this program [noise]

A few months ago on July tenth graphic video against sec case on social media in Cameron it shows two women being led by soldiers the first woman has a child's hand looked tightly into has the child looks around seven or eight years old [noise]

The second woman have a small baby tied to ... by bundling talked wrapped around her waist [noise] the women look scan but they remained calm maybe for the sake of their children [noise] the women in the audience has been accused by soldiers belonging to that you had a squid Boko Haram new rules
Of it or leave it to be us go now you are really love is love you and all the ...
And the final scene of the video of those women and children applying for all that one of the soldiers says to one of the children
Receive ... mothers and that
Kind of thing I had sit down and ... heads but you haven't specified in [noise] and before he can compete defenses they thought she was saying [noise]
The women and children I've been forced to go around the
... then at point blank range twenty two times [noise] video when final ... when it was shed on what's at Facebook and Twitter to
See now said they were innocent speculation about what was being shown some paint that this atrocity to pay some money
I just said it was filmed in the far north of ... what government soldiers have been fighting Boko Haram since twenty Thirteen [noise] initially the governments have cameras and dismissed the video as close as fake news

Here at the BBC we uncovered the truth behind a shocking footage and what you're about to hear will prove who was behind
Oh
I see it out and this is BBC try and on the program that investigates the wealth official media this week I certainly that's been brought West Nile comics at BBC Africa I
A relatively new investigative unit with a focus on stories from the consonants [noise] enjoying from Nairobi by BBC Africa's security correspondents
Tiny ... with the team high end so Hi Tammy it's highly distressing videos to watch how did you begin investigation to find out what was going on
We first saw when as you said it went viral in July this year people were shocked because what we see is to women and two children being led to that death
Put bluntly it's a mud or online people were looking for answers and needed more details one of the first things we did was ask where it was filmed when it was filmed and who we saw in the video
On next question is a big one to the soldiers involved
Well through our investigation we managed to identify the three men that pulled the trigger on the women and their children one of the assault rifle used in the killings was the staff I Am Twenty one as mentioned earlier in the video it's being held by a man called second class cobra
For the last ... plus for a
Second Plaats refers to the soldiers rank and cobra his nickname into all the women and children were fired at twenty two times by the three men as they were killed cobra is the last month still firing up the dead bodies we hear on the video one of his colleagues calling out son got leave it there dead [noise]
Despite central being tool to stop he continued to shoot we still doesn't stop shooting they call us again that's enough that's enough [noise]
What happened next
In August a month after the video was made public on social media the government made a sudden change in their position after weeks of denying that these killings took place in Cameroon Bakri announced that seven members of the ... military had been arrested and were under investigation
Son do was one of the names that appeared on the list of men under investigation suggesting that cobra is a nickname for lungs corporal fun guy [noise] uh
You listening to trending on the BBC will set
This week shocking story of a ... a two women and children that was widely shed on social media
BBC in bath kicking at Africa I spent months looking at the cage and do you think forensic analysis found out the truth behind what happened
To me we spent time talking about how Africa I uncovered the story and investigated this video but I think we need some context about what's happening in Cameron
Yes become Rooney and security forces have been deployed in the finals of the country to fight Boko Haram in a conflict that's been going on since twenty Thirteen no Boko Haram as you may know is an Islamist terror group which operates across parts of West Africa including countries surrounding come ruined such as news yeah Nigeria and Chad
Boko Haram target civilians through suicide bombings and kidnappings now you may remember the school goes in the book in Nigeria who abducted by the group
But the atrocity by Cameroon soldiers shown in the video is not an isolated incident cases like this have been reported by human rights groups for some time now but even to the people who've been tracking these crimes this video was particularly brutal example of what's going on in the north of chemical and
When did he gets his face too we ... we had in other media showing can literally an army in ... we had tremendous that's not what the record but these they'd get what we eat all they say
This is ... from Amnesty International
Honesty as many kids do sense of cases of extrajudicial executions and law who killings but to come up with an army in Vegas they let you can see the end of the rules say we started out what research in ... we had
Published at least we poured way we add documented in
Cases of executing let his jokes I'm located in ... in the context of search and courts in an open racial can weed out by the army to hide out Boko Haram fighters or to ... Iraq people affected us we don't like to walk around
Human rights violations have been committed by both sides Boko Haram has been on a killing and kidnapping spree on the other hand I miss the international says the Cameroon and security forces enjoy impunity where there's almost no accountability for crimes committed by the army
They given free rein to do whatever necessary to eradicate Boko Haram from the region so civilians are caught in crossfire between the brutality of a jihadist group and the heavy handedness of government security forces
There is one of the commercials and governmental security forces are um
How 'bout terrorized by military operations where
Not only the hikers as being killed or arrested but
... ... ... ... and they need very high price so that brutal response by the army and the human rights violations committed by the island to fight against Iran and definitely contributed to again a support
From the army among the Yankees and the fight is not all that ... old there [laughter]
[noise]
We had any at that time of any government festive Smith ... as
Fake means and then in August yet they change their position and announce that sets them Mendez ... had been elected and currently under investigation
Now if he wants the African ice video which shows the methods used innocent destination and catch the b._b._c. news websites and fish for finding the soldiers
Killed swimming [noise] Kenny I understand that
You say the ... minister of communications Easter chill and the ... a few days ago
[noise] yes I did and I began by asking the minister whether he'd seen the video
Of the work what ... what was you know what is it all about
You know the video of the killings of the women and children or the BBC did an investigation to prove you know the location and the people behind it or did did you not see it
Yes I Am very well aware of it but I think that we have already on the issue I some under pressure and cholesterol or we're talking about it but if you want me to repeat what I have already said there is no program
You know what I'm Wondering is whether you saw the BBC's um investigation yesterday we put out an investigation yesterday
Yard or fortunately I couldn't because I was flying from my own country I Wonder if you've been married for a I have a real oh we are deeply involved in there who don't show um bring yeah so are good or not enough time to go through to watch the TV
All right so I explained to the Minnesota want the Africa I've video showed I mean it would have helped if you had seen it but I mean we will just carry on ahead even though you haven't seen it at that point I proceeded to walk him through the investigation BBC Africa I carried out
Much like we have in this program and for the first time since the clip of this atrocity surfaced
Battery acknowledged that these killings were carried out by communion soldiers
Are some of the players who say that on fortunately it is likely to that this has been done by some few shoulders there were seven of them
All of those who are in one way or the red involved in all of them are being this I'm an Iraq there are a lot you know they have to finish the job because
Also I Want to most of the fact that the presumption of innocence is granted to all of them on to be a reasonable doubt it uses tablets that they are the ones who have committed this gruesome
Or ... or ... ...
... what would you say to suggestions that this is a wider problem in the ... army that you'll forces are out of control
[noise] can you give the example of one army in the world
Reaches illegal ones again search missed the area by
Some shoe or unfold element or does happen here is happening all over the world
Including the largest country in the world you can not reporting to cover any all around me to be the only one who hadn't fully element of freak a bigger threat that a search on or just cry
For a
The detailed and comprehensive work of Africa I proved without doubt that the killing in the viral video was carried out by ... soldiers in the far north of the country it happened in twenty Fifteen but was widely shared on social media in July of this year
We will continue to follow the trials of the soldiers in votes and keep you updated

And Mississippi but our until may ... their next we go back to the Nineteen forties to look at the statistics behind spit fire pilot life expectancy
We've got a short break coming up to stay with us we'll be back in a minute
Of the b._b._c. World Service in the U.S has made possible by American public media producer a distributor of award winning public radio content
Eight PM American public media with support from see three I O T addressing the world's most challenging problems that the convergence of artificial intelligence I O T and elastic cloud computing more at sea three I O T ... a a
From
Boston University this is not the point nine W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR News station with the latest news and analysis at W. B. U. R. dot org [noise]
This is Charlie colder than sports ruin started their season with the seven nothing beat down from the capitals last night in Washington the Yankees beat the Oakland Athletics seven to two in the American league wildcard game in New York
Percent I mean obviously it does depend which policy on me you were in for example some on the western front had a nine and ten chance of survival but the ... the soldiers killed
The army was ... larger in World War one so the total number of on the desk was much higher than the second World War but from the point of view of the ordinary flush him on the infantry was safe in the navy and the first World War
[noise] but no intentions to survive on the western problems but it's surprising but I suppose we all go to see fewer casualties was the nature of war changes
The historian David gets an point top of the more technologically advanced we become
More removed from the battlefield we are you just need to look into the power to see these changes for example the battle of Gettysburg July ... to July ... Eighteen sixty three was one of the bloodiest moments the American civil war twenty seven percent of the bathrooms were killed
And ... in Syria and six hundred and thirty six eighty ... on his last as much as ... percent that troops but that depends on which has to meet you go by
... about to say the ... in southern Afghanistan in August twenty ten loan Australian died no after an allied forces died but through the Taliban were reported killed
That under the shrinking because only as a small up as less close combat fighting on just the sheer power of modern weapons to the strong deterrence to engage [noise]
So how do you workout life expectancy during the war it really depends on the rule and all the weapons
Me once again in ... and now
A nice hot asks us at what point our ability to be compassionate runs out
[noise]
Standing outside what is a giant shooter just plunked in the middle of the ... street in a market time in ... in the north of England it's opposite ... huge fight the size of a small ... and just around the corner there is a sign that says well

My my shoes welcome to our shop teeth come in and try walking in my in someone else's shoes literally [noise]
This is an exhibition by the words first and put the museum and they want to take you on a journey into someone else's life
The idea is that you come in and you'd get fitted with a pair of shoes that actually belong to someone else
And that person could be from anywhere in the world we would give you the shoes and a little MP three player a pair of headphones and he was head out for a models will while you listen to them telling you a story about their life they could be anyone ready for many will cause I can I go yeah today come in and
Tell me what she says you have like seven about seven okay I'll send you know she's
The why on earth do we need an empathy museum director ... says it was set up for very specific reason
I guess it's a response to the idea that there are declining levels of in the in the wild the empathy deficit that as a collective
Compassion fatigue perhaps it's to do with being bombarded with images from news from social media or it's just everywhere and
With all that noise going on sometimes it's hard to find a way to connect with those huge stories and you'll hopefully finding those points a connection with another person that you would have never met [noise]
In the ... purpose was to field so for the for
The fear is
Do we have less empathy or compassion them before is it something we need to relearn or worse consigned to amusing this week we're looking at compassion fatigue what is it how does it manifest and what happens if or when we all stopped caring [noise]
A government is in police custody in Florida well meaning and rains almost a century close to a thousand people have already been west type
Thing to hit Japan of these days is easy to feed them bart it by stories of devastation and disaster to advise the search continues for
Survival without trouble ... face
So much by ... you can be hard to maintain the same level of ice rinks are concerned

So we just engaged shock and anger are replaced by
While nothing for and that's
Pretty much the definition of compassion fatigue so are we at risk of becoming numb to what's going on around us that's the question I ask pastors by in Seoul for in the north of England in spite of the late summer sunshine many told me they were
Endless by news I
Almost didn't gauge from it because I just didn't so shocking that nothing ... it happens so often that either side desensitized to it
On pause and I can remember Kennedy ... parents coming to see me at school that was a huge huge joke now where the girls were numb to it because of these things are happening just look at the ... sisters and everything else those quite frightening
I ... with his compassion fatigue or whether it's just it's exhausting if it is exhausting because you're constantly ... to me I'm constantly worried about it is it ever so bad that you feel any just such often disengage
Yeah it is actually I think we're already on them to think a lot of people you just see another bad thing is happening in the news and you just don't even think about it is just another I think
It's that feeling of numbness that is key to compassion fatigue Dr Lucy ... is a clinical psychologist in the u._k. she's been studying this for years
I think it's helpful to think of as a ... that that kind of beginning and
Perhaps we probably oh half name and throughout the day while we are more or less able to connect with the confines of authors
And if you're looking at ... that down the ... you know the very end of the spectrum some people experience but not where they just they actually called come into work anymore or some people experience symptoms off
Something quotes that country traumatic stress which is why you experience ... symptoms but it's not your trauma
[noise] doctors and nurses the trauma everyday but is there a price to pay for carrying too much when it comes to the sharper end of the compassion fatigue spectrum the kinds of results as Bernard our second rate traumatic stress
Those on the front line of American the Madison are more risk than most
In typical day we see upwards of a hundred a hundred and fifty patients with a wide breadth of medical emergencies
... works in a busy emergency center in Cape Town in South Africa
We've had a recent spate of gang related violence and we've seen is a contract when today which is hard for us as a moment and does presented challenges not only from the medical wanted to be for those for psychological trauma that goes along with us [noise]
After almost ten years the frontline Americans the Madison dealing with trauma and suffering on a daily basis Dr de hon noticed his own compassion levels started to run dangerously low
On us in trouble when a young couple rotating their newborns struggling to breathe or they were destroyed distressed their baby wasn't breathing well was turning blue and they needed help we did provide advance our support for the child
Recess and tried to the child but during that whole moments when time period or was emotionally numb ige has she lost touch with the gravity of the situation and I knew I was in trouble and perhaps
May soon after when I felt I couldn't cope anymore and when I did phone in and indicate to two colleagues that's how I felt like a train was coming out to me [noise] and
I couldn't get out of the white [noise]
The baby survived the doctor de hon was struggling he had developed compassion fatigue emotionally he was running an empty
Sometimes there was anger but more often than not it was more numbness in indifference didn't office the support and compassion and that was required
Of felt that I was the person ... myself from the actual problem at hand to the feeding their toes moving patients around like objects in an emergency units that made me a quite anxious the times was unsure whether I Would ever be able to return to mention
After a few months off Dr ... did go back to work at the emergency center so why does the human mind react like this psychologist Dr Lucy Maddox again
If we are faced ways really emotionally painful experiences is understandable that we would want to turn away from that and that we might kind of couples and nice and neat or somehow
Minimize things that they feel that bad to be kind of kid ourselves on that bad because that's what gets us three today it is likely to be a kind of unwanted consequence of a way of thinking and behaving that way using ... is in the short time protective
Even on point one WVU wage Brewster and streaming WB you our dog or W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR News station
And and will continue to stay on the BBC well that is a tiny shop and learn [noise]
Britain says the Russian government is directly behind a global campaign of cyber attacks have really political institutions to free press the sporting events
As rescue struggle to reach remote and devastated communities in Indonesia aid groups loans and new appeals
Of being the most of them haven't listened to this
Gentleman by mother asked dawn you on the opposition
Now love up fumes are available and we don't just advertising perfumes that isn't Indian vet telling us about his brilliant idea about putting top fragrances to good use when tracking tight as a moral ... about
Twenty minutes how it was and you can try you on TALK of the wealthiest [noise]

Hello this is David Austin with the b._b._c. news Britain has accused Russia's admitted tree intelligence service the GI you of being behind a series of cyber attacks around the world and recently is designed to undermine international stability
Among the hacks blamed on Russia want against a British based TV station there's been no response from Moscow golden corral reports
Britain's national cyber security sense of it has high confidence that a group of activists belonging to the G all you often noticed ...
Was my suddenly responsible for a series of cyber attacks a previous attacking June twenty Seventeen which cripple businesses around the world including the u._k. had already been linked to the G are you in a statement the foreign secretary Jeremy ...
Said the G argues actions were reckless and indiscriminate
And that together with allies the u._k. would expose and respond to the G argues attempts to undermine international stability
The wife of the former Malaysian prime minister Najib ... has been challenged in court with money laundering and tax evasion at the same time missed an edgy puts himself also in ... Michael ... reports
Missed an edgy his wife ... pleaded not guilty to Seventeen charges twelve relate to money put into a bank account they asked like she didn't pay taxes on those depots H
She's going to bed and mystical complex in Kuala Lumpur with a husband who is it a pre trial he ... he's case former prime minister facing more than ... charges connected to the theft of money from the Malaysian state investments are known as one in the bay you'll to plead not guilty
The engine easier and we'll sorry to say they'll and search and rescue efforts on friday for survivors of last week's to know me and a quake that hit the island of pseudo way see at least fourteen hundred people were killed in the disaster how Griffith is that [noise]
Outside that Romney on a plaza to launch cranes slowly pull the mangled debris was once allowed shopping center it took five days the equipment to arrive
It's filled hundreds of bodies remain buried beneath rubble aid supplies of being flown into the city that frustration amongst the tsunami survivors over the delays and bureaucracy they face more international support is coming with shelter kids under ... being flown from Britain today
But with how supplies he has still cut off
They will reach only a fraction of the people in some ways the desperate for help
The U.S Senate is expected to receive the FBI is reports on other occasions of sexual misconduct against President Trump's Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh within hours
Agents interviewed some of those names during testimony given last week by the judge and Christine Blasey Ford who accuses him of sexual assault he denies the allegations will news from the BBC
A federal judge in the U.S state of California has blocked the Trump Administration from ending a twenty year old program given protected status symbols and three hundred thousand immigrants
The TPS skiing provides protection against deportation and employment rights for migrants from countries his by natural disasters in conflict in respect to the the legal situation judge at which in order to people from three Central American countries and Sudan retain the states is pending a legal challenge
And investigation has got in Malaysia into how it team is six rescue divers drowned while trying to find a teenager who fell into uprooted it just use mine it was searching for the Seventeen year old boy on Wednesday when they were called in a world who
The delegation from the U.N Security council will visit Kinshasa in the Democratic Republic of Congo on Thursday hoping to meet president jurors have could be the head of elections in December
From some of the United states of soldier sure and says from President could be that he will not seek a ... I'm fearing it could trigger violent clashes
Moving two hundred million ... phones in the U.S had received it tested it from the federal government in the first trial of a system designed to notify citizens about emergencies the message contains the words presidential election accompanied by loud sound daily reports from San Francisco
Alarm went off loudly it was difficult to avoid even popping up on some smart watches the less is controlled by the U.S federal emergency
Use in the event of a serious problem such as a nuclear attack or an act of terror but some suggested the power of a direct almost unavoidable message from the president could be abused one lawsuits to block that test cooling it government compelled listening not request was refused by a judge in New York
State leave reporting BBC News [noise]
I said you had an well continue they kind of ... fishing points to get Russian cyber spies continuing efforts to meet you know to ask like and so now I'm a hit areas in Indonesia
And right now without talking guard denies rape allegations more on all those stories and the next half an hour and then he can tech stuff in every hospital for seven seven eight six twenty fifty eighty five [noise]
Let's begin with the allegations of cyber attacks on Britain is saying that Russia's ministry intelligence service the geology is quote almost certainly responsible for cyberattacks and Britain Ukraine and the U.S including
The hacking of Ukrainian IT systems to World Anti Doping Agency and the U.S Democratic Party the foreign secretary ... uh Germany ... condemned the actions as reckless an indiscriminate the defense secretary has just described Russia as a pariah state
There is of course of Britain background of Russian British relations after the ... no ... not long ago
On Russia has constantly denied such activities when of course it can be bulldozed issue denials so how significant is this announcement are based on work by the British security services
Little piece of ... joins us here in the studio at he was Britain's first national security advisor knows the ropes well I'm not ... a Russian responsibility has pretty much was being the assumptions ages so is that no real surprise here ...
No there's no real surprise because we've become old who used to the reckless behavior by the G O U military intelligence agency
A but the problem with cyberattacks 'cause you have to work really hard to attribute them with real certainty to a particular actor and ... the announcement shows I think is much more for her she will now with the Russians were behind is
That has a number of a number of implication that no one I think it reminds everyone not just the government that citizens organizations companies
That everyone has a responsibility to keep that side of protection up to date because even the most sophisticated attack usually starts with a weakness in the system somebody clicking on a ... ... email or not keeping that protections up to date said this is a big wake up call to everyone to be aware that this is going on
And it also shines a light on the behavior of what used to be a secretive Russian organization pseudo around the world people can be whether they're going to be very careful about what the G all you may be
Doing everything is going to hurt the Russians are ... are they going to be annoyed that the claim as bad because they're just going to dismiss it in the normal way if as I say they can even be able to lower themselves the issue of denial
That of course they will publicly uh be completely uncaring about this
But I I didn't think uh it's a good thing for Russia I think it was a good thing that the screen poisoning operation was so badly ... and I think coming on the heels of that to have this now clearly attributed to to the jail you which means that was authorized in the Kremlin is not good for Russia
Was last night for some reason to make is it because we always kind of say you know that they're working in the sort of you know with a ... from the Kremlin you'll saying that the British can now draw the line this is almost government policy you'll saying
Well that's ... during the ... statement said and I think that that's right I didn't think that they would indulge in a huge global cooperation a attacking Ukraine attacking America attacking the world anti Doping Agency without
Being approved it it's not one of those things it at the security services often do is kind of like preparing public opinion for we need more money to take the result is it part of one of those I don't think
It's that I think in some of the attacks you can see there's a clear Russian motive to destabilize Ukraine to obfuscate or in the anti doping world at a time when they themselves were being accused of a tipping to manipulate the American elections in others the seems no particular rationale behind it
You're listening to music with that ... shop and learn a lot of reminded of our top stories you know at the BBC this morning at the British Government has named Russian ministry intelligence for what it describes as an indiscriminate and reckless campaign of cyber attacks on international targets
And an FBI reporter President Trump's Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh is expected to be handed to the U.S Senate within hours let's get sports news that no business needs next with that and with them
Getting it and it kind of manufacturing giant General Motors has announced a surprise dealing with Japan's Hyundai told about self driving cars tell us what's happening
East a hunter says it's going to invest to point some ... billion US dollars over the course of the next twelve years seven hundred and fifty million dollars without doing streets in Raleigh now we want to get into the autonomous vehicle market so charging cost to you and me ... you can sit in the back and read newspapers if you'd like all of you you
Wish to proceed with not talking about cause where you have to take control at some stage ... other
Now ... as they look to do this there were two different ways of looking at this story is it home to hang on a second this is going to be the next big thing we need to get in here and we're a little bit slowed the policy or is this General Motors saying our noses
A Sunni to lessen the risk a little bit by giving somebody else involved well which way is it well that's a question I put to Joe ... Joe ... who is editor at large for tech crunch in San Francisco
I think the Honda is trying to get involved in this knowing this is the future of transportation GM really made a forward thinking investment by acquiring cruise a few years ago for just a billion dollars
And already it's clear that there's going to be a lot more money invested in this but
At the same time the Honda wants to get into the business world GM wants to accelerate it because there are so many other players including Google reading up their own autonomous car divisions
But when your company as big as GM with kids as deep as GM what do you need to fool
Factors that it needs to be a global roll out the real successive of autonomy vehicles and electric vehicles will be when they replaced cars around the world and so Congress advantage and their partnership could really help GM to make sure that those cars getting into Asia
And that it doesn't have to worry about Honda spinning up its own division and competing for it for the Asian market ... relate to the game here
A lot of people just weren't sure how long it would take these vehicles to develop there
Was certainly early progress years ago but the question was also Howard regulators view this but increasingly the governments are realizing that human drivers are not very safe
And so moving towards communist vehicles even though there might be some high profile crashes and fatalities should save a lot of lives and so suddenly with the government support the innovation is moving a lot faster
Many self driving cars are underway at various different common ... who's in the lead at the moment
Many believe that Google's way mo is in the ... they've been doing an incredible amount of testing their
Engineering based company who's really great at parsing data
And they've had their whole on campus to try out their own cars for years now and so it doesn't want to believe that their approach which is to go directly to fully autonomous vehicles rather than some midpoint where the human driver might have to suddenly take control as is done with Tesla system
That that would be a lot safer to actually just bypass that middle ground and go straight to fully autonomous cars with the driver doesn't have to be relied on to do anything
Senate thinking this is new state twenty three minutes possibly on to India now and a story involving a man E. T. one is a plague Russ who which soldiers killed several people in the ... area conservationist went to ... and remove a locals won't tequila
Dumped ... H as ... is a vet with a brilliant idea to attract the Tigris and truck with a commercial sent
... perfumes such as you've dabbling behind you isn't based on attracting pheromones basically animal sex chemicals ... civil tone um it's ... Margaret asked his mosque and Calvin Klein obsession big ... his dumped product
Along the ... channel number phi monitored asked on your one mosque and seek opposition instead of being ... and ... ...
Are all tissues cheaper ... to ... those two I before you get a position is it easy to get your stuff or not it because there are a lot of a fake but I'm
I'm One of these the effect you smear it on an area and the animals is it both male cats I'm female cats who find is attractive
In my room and I read on the cabinet perhaps because there were the monitor ... case
Plus a I'm a new laws to get into one another one because when we played a little bit of one you didn't didn't work out so we thought probably the behind the fake one so we go to one and ... on the camera but I ... back in the next day so it would be my disability or
Does it assist in the efforts to control an capture the cats as well because that was a man eating ... ah the case with the tiger is that ah she is a killer um what is the idea to attracted to an area and then Trump will kill her
Eye before the capture the dining killing it like once it gets confirmed other monitor and the authorities to condition it has to be shocked
But we gave all the orders must have got to the next night or using a secret obsession is it contains typical so that I ... the big asked to do it you'll be one that might be a feeding them
Now caps have famously acute sense of smell why do you think that it's the few in the works better than other ceremonies substitutes that must be other alternatives I'm surprised that it's a human perfume that works the best
If you went for two months at the ... uh let's see we told which is derived from the civic lesson plans it contains a sequel that almost which one's going to put our finger thing and uh any new new shouldn't be able to just say no this is sort of for instance on bail you out of a thing you do
And they all do they use it we can establish it right now will eat twice I've used it on a ... and I started going forward or use it in there are you a state so I'm pretty sure it does a has been capturing off the ...
And how would it work that fool with Tigris T. one uh you would ... some how or what would you do you ... the main object you were explaining to trying to attract the tigers to an area
When they when they become an issue so they knew that it can be able to buy a beat so we just have to look like is it pretty ... and put a
Stay on the camera that was that they ... plus localized area then but others create my own thing on the weekend or state or we can stay near the beach maybe one of the ... so
In the ... if I was a great on the camera as an old debate we did use that meant that like we used a ... I go to ... we used a all of it either
But I'm all excited that I go to do it in the cage with Donald with us from the bearded yeah but it came down to the beat Florida or if you want to use ... other a matter of building up got
So are you going to take your your bustle of a Calvin Klein up to the area where the Tigris ...
Wherever I go I Do I look at eight or ... what are you there are lots of us are when other state
What are the other things that you use what are the other methods as well as as a human perfume
Or views diner you wouldn't and we use a ... or ... recorded one
On do you find that the perfume works better than those
Uh yeah ... well ... if it properly use because the only drawback with the Indian condition is a lot of ... I'm going to
Go to find the real thing that set up to age ... never without a buffalo CK obsession it works He joked on liquids tigers and his wife [laughter]
Can't came and said can I smell on what's coming up in well not pay down
I've just been talking to somebody in the village of ... of course we continue our coverage here on the b._b._c. World Service of what's happened after the tsunami and the earthquake
In Indonesia a story there of people still digging not children from a Bible camp that was underway there so there is still a lot more rescuing to do or at least recovery before
Even the mission to help people survive is a really in full swing so that just political nothing
Like it down and thanks very much ... Johnson county stay with the CDC has well seven [noise]

[noise] distribution of the b._b._c. World Service in the United states is made possible by American public media
Producer and distributor of award winning public radio content ATM American public media with support from home advisor matching homeowners with home improvement professionals for a variety of home projects for minor repairs to major
Role models homeowners can read reviews of local pros and book appointments online at home advisor dot com
From Boston University this is Ninety point nine W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR News station with live streaming at W. B. U. R. dot org [noise]
This is Charlie gold vase in sports ruined started their season with the loss of they were shut out seven zip in the hands of the reigning Stanley Cup champions capitals in Washington as guinea ... scored two of the capital seven golds and ... great multi
There'll be you'll be you are FM Boston homo Boston's largest radio newsroom Ninety two point seven WVU weight is very eight or nine point one WVU wage Brewster and streaming WB you our dog or W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR News station
I think the inquiry on the BBC well that is with me having an argument coming out and get everything that ... a child labor from Perri who went to the un last week to send a message we want to what [noise] thousands of children across the well say
They want to help support their families so is it time to rethink the ban on child labor here from the international Labour organization the driving force behind the ban
... was that age interferes with children's education and really jeopardize their future prospects in fact
We look into the unintended consequences at the ban something like fifty to sixty thousand children who made redundant overnight all we hear about the children in India combining was with education
We talked to children and actually come up with a document what we can and cannot do
Is it time to rethink the ban on child later that evening climbing onto the knees

Hello this is David Austin with the b._b._c. news Malaysia's format prime minister Najib ... and his wife has both appeared in quote and quote our number ... to ... separate charges of corruption they arrived on their own ... together Michael barista reports
Mr ... wife was done on cell pleaded not guilty to Seventeen charges twelve relate to let me put into a bank account they wish to lead she didn't pay taxes on those deposits
She's going to bed and mystical complex in Kuala Lumpur with a husband who is it a pre trial he was he's case former prime minister facing more than ... charges connected to the theft of money from the Malaysian state investments are known as one empty pie you also pleads guilty
Rescue workers on the engine easy an item to sue the way see making a final effort to find survivors of last week's to nominate and a quake and for the government officially ends the rescue operation hollow Griffith is that [noise]
Outside the Ramadan plaza to launch cranes slowly pull the mangled debris was once a lot of shopping center it took five days the equipment to arrive
He's filled hundreds of bodies remain buried beneath rebel aid supplies of being flown into the city but that frustration amongst the nominee survivors over the delays and bureaucracy they face more international support is coming but with how supplies he is still cutoff
They will reach only a fraction of the people in some ways the desperate for help
Britain has accused of Russia's military intelligence service the geo you of being behind a series of cyber attacks around the world in recent years designed to undermine international stability
The foreign secretary condemned its actions as reckless and indiscriminate is among the hacks blamed on the Russian agency one against a UK based TV station has been no response so far from Moscow Jonathan markers is at the NATO headquarters in Brussels
Is a growing concern for all NATO countries I spoke to Britain's defense secretary Gavin William somebody described Russia as a pariah state he put the onus firmly on publicity attributing blame very clearly to the GI you Russian military intelligence on to the Russian political leadership by extension
But you know I often is it possible to have something that you might call cyber deterrence in other words a genuine threat from
The west to Russian computers that might make the Russians think again about doing this kind of thing he was very reluctant to be drawn in that direction
The U.S Senate is expected to receive the FBI is reports on vacations of sexual misconduct against President Trump's Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh within hours
Agents interviewed some of those names during testimony given last week by the judge and Christine Blasey Ford who accused as soon as six shooter sold he denies the allegations
Will use from the BBC
A federal judge in the U.S state of California has blocked the Trump Administration from ending a twenty year old program giving protected stages tumbles and three hundred thousand immigrants
Scheme protects against deportation and employment rights migrants from countries that buy natural disasters and conflicts in respect to the vet a guy that the judge had with Chen or did the people from three Central American countries and Sudan retain the stages
The lawyers for an American woman who's accused of football stock Christiana remote Christiana run out of raping a nine years ago says the actions of other women had emboldened to the food Buddhist strongly denies the social scene Katherine my yoga James Cook reports
My lawyer said his client was not able to face the cameras because she was fine child frightened and suffering from post traumatic stress
Please do vote said miss my God only find the cottage to make her story public because of the me too movement of women who had stood up until their stories of sexual assaults
Cristiano Ronaldo denies raping Catherine my yoga and the penthouse sweet Las Vegas hotel in two thousand nine she filed a police report soon after the alleged attack
Miss my yoga also wants to another twenty ten deal with the football or in which she was reportedly paid three hundred and Seventy five thousand US dollars not to speak about the case
An investigation has become in Malaysia into how it's seen as six rescue divers drone while trying to find a teenager who fell into a pool to just use mine was searching for the boy when they caution of will ...
Will be two hundred million ... of the U.S have received to test the from the federal government in the first try out of a system designed to notify citizens about emergencies that message contains words presidential desserts and this is a test to Capitol is accompanied by allowed a lump sum
Will be at ten of the cost of owning your Petra car electric vehicles have twenty moving parts versus about two thousand moving parts for the pet shop car
Which means they're ten times cheaper to maintain the cost of charging an electric vehicle has also ten times cheaper than the cost of fueling a better car on a per mile basis
And the last five hundred thousand miles as opposed to just a hundred and forty thousand miles for the pets
When you are over and you drive a car or a hundred thousand miles per year
Over five years you need one electric vehicle or two and a half or three patch on cars and then you take a driver out of the equation
Then the cost goes down further three or four times so you combine that on them an autonomous and electric and you get ten times decrease in the costs
These satellite powerful arguments you'll saying this is starting in twenty twenty on you know you're saying to three years away you're saying there's a storm coming if there was a storm coming we would see the beginnings of it now wouldn't William
Evolution that you describe happening we do
And if you look at the cost of an electric vehicle see that Tesla Model S last a hundred thousand dollars just in two thousand and fourteen and now you can buy a Tesla model free for fifty thousand dollars so it's come down by half
Essentially they're going to be cheaper than buying Petra car
By about twenty twenty for half the market and essentially by all of that market by about twenty twenty five now car companies aren't getting it after denial for the last few years they're all announcing that they're investing tens of billions of dollars
Into an electric vehicle hand autonomous vehicle technology so it's all happening
[noise] okay the electric vehicle revolution get autonomous vehicles self driving cars may well be a lot more than three or four years away but it's huge regulate tree huddles not to mention the technological hurdles
A man and a ton of vehicle and a lot of these cars are ready and yes there are regulatory hurdles but that's another genius improving explanation in several countries are investing for regulatory from China
For instance there are many cities that are already investing in making self driving technology happen in their cities
But with autonomous vehicles that is not just about persuasive technology you need the public to be happy to see these vehicles on the road and it may take a long time before the public's persuaded that self driving cars are safe
Not correct the main adopt or a ton of knowledge evil will be fleets will be that ... cents a list of the world
When they do they're going to purchase millions of cars at a time and they're going to offer consumers a product which is going to be ten times less expensive than ownership of cars and consumers are going to start trying it maybe once and maybe twice
In once they get used to it than they can adopt it interrupts our car
What about the worries about an autonomous vehicle climbing into a boss skewed not kind of issue it's always raised when this discussion happens
Well humans kill about thirty five thousand people every year autonomous vehicles are already safer in many ways than humans so that's a narrative that's driven by the incumbents who don't want to see a ton must have an allergy to disrupt
Their products oil products metro cars and so on
So Chinese said do you think there's a storm coming back how quickly do you think this vision of robo taxis will destroy the internal combustion engine
Ten years after tournaments the ethical already and approved by regulators which we expect
To be twenty Twenty one the individual ownership of natural cars will be up suddenly it will be over
How much of this is driven by your desire to see an electric revolution because you're anxious about climate change
This is purely gonna happen for economic reasons we've ... this has nothing to do with climate change this is
A disruption driven by people and companies making the right to economic choice
So Tony ... believes the revolution and transportation will happen regardless of any environmental arguments there
She says is all about cold hard cash and even the oil industry the industry most likely to be ended if Mr Sievers correct recognizes that radical change is already underway
In transportation [noise]
The I wrote for about three million vehicles today to between a hundred or even two hundred million vehicles for twenty first so that is a very hard right to grow
Matthew ... is vice president for new fuels including together for a city or the oil and gas companies shower so would you think that electric cars are going to replace
Traditional fossil fuels outcomes ... quickly if there's a high another show in changing the fleet around vehicles can live on the road for
Fifteen Years or more than in the case of heavy duty vehicles so trucks I Know the most famous sport because it's a very long lived indeed I'm not so easy to electrify through batteries with electric cars I mean there is a very compelling argument when he ... a
Ton of vehicles and something like ... ... what was a survey Scott could be a powerful driver of baby a change in the car market I think it could happen quite quickly in hopes of your major cities wearing when ... a lot of the list as we've ever had gotten buses someone like this you think
Could transition greatly yes cities like London San Francisco votes from Singapore maybe show you how I I think electrification here already but it is likely to sky over within the next five to ten years what is holders to coal is the degree
And I think it's also hard or too cold
The degree to which driverless vehicles will will really take off will like technology really deliver on the problem is but I think you have to keep in mind not is probably an urban model and I think we're going to see different
Ways of the courtroom ability and the countryside and indeed different parts of the world I don't think it's possible yet
To imagine the whole of the world you know following the same ... which I mean
As a representative of one of the biggest fossil fuel companies in the world but she's a huge challenge for you is this is the end of your industry isn't it will just by challenging an opportunity I knew you were going to go to challenge about who lived through the Jones first I mean we're
All living in a worldwide oil which is the dominant transportation fuel will be gradually substituted by range of alternatives one of which is about ... put a wholesome food hydrogen renewable natural gas but that's in the context of a market for oil is
Still growing maybe no here in London or in Europe but in India and China for example the demand for oil will continue for another decade or two but
When it because they're in the ideal position to leap from the whole thing on they they could say right solar panels electric cars to get another need the grid that NSO need the power stations they could just go straight to electric couldn't they well they do any of the great
Unless of course one simply because it's impossible to imagine vehicles of the sky charge solely from residential
Seems to me
We're going to run a billion ... falls in the world so they'll residential solutions
I guess part of the argument is if you were sharing vehicles we ... need to invest because maybe you need to three hundred million vehicles
That just use more intensively we share them I think God indeed it is possible but my impact vehicle sales because pickles are going to be much more highly utilized because we all being shed by holding worked around the clock and therefore energy you may not necessarily decrease but he's not going to come from your own mind business which is on your own company well all my business will find out a little
I mean all my business is actually gas the longer term future for the energy system could be based on gas and renewables so we aim to change the transition we have a growing presence in renewables what'd you say the transition he says if it's definitely
Coming do you believe a transition is coming it's already happening
Matthew ... of show well the latest production figures from
Tesla suggest that is like in the company yet despite the antics of its charismatic CEO and says gene ... even if Tesla fails tomorrow you don't mosque was succeeded in his mission
The transition is going to happen with or without Tesla and in some ways tests or has achieved its mission because the electric car was dead before Tesla now the wheels are in motion here and there's no stopping the electrification movement
Duty or grandchildren will look back on the internal combustion in the same way that we look back at the steam engine already kind of old fashioned
... absolutely I mean we have a picture up at our office of the streets of New York city in Nineteen Seventeen twin horses reached a peak in the roadways and I think that we're going to look back similarly and be entertained at how the world function on gas powered vehicles
That was ... and remember what Tony Seeger said this could happen in just ten
One minute of MORNING EDITION before we go to the BBC which if you care about the b._b._c. this is your time to call us and support us on the last day of this fundraiser and
Have a chance to win a new twenty Nineteen Subaru from city side super in Belmont one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven at the number to call to make your pledge or you can do it at W. B. U. R. dot org
Either ... or the super outback your choice thanks to city side Subaru and I would point out that at noon today when you're listening to Germany Hobson we back then on here now covering the latest on Capitol Hill
And the FBI test the FBI investigation into Brett Kavanaugh which is just out which senators are looking at in private this morning
You'll be hearing how your money is working for you on your
Behalf and you know that you have a Subaru and I do because I don't get to this [laughter]
One eight hundred written on the drawing for the Subaru your money is matched fifty percent more if you get right now as we and MORNING EDITION and go to the b._b._c. on this last day of the fund raiser the last chance to budge develop you'd be hard as far as the number to go to as we go back to the news one
Eight hundred nine zero nine nine
To a seven or give at W. B. U. R. dot org and thank you thank you [noise]

Were funded by you our listeners since I was in I had any day in boarding school grade six to twelve and postgraduate opening mind since Eighteen thirty for open house October fourteenth Worcester
So there you are listening to the point nine WVU are FM Boston home of Boston's largest radio news rum Ninety two point seven ... eighty nine point one WB wage Brewster and streaming at W. B. U. R. dot org told you you are all students NPR News station
BBC News with ...
Intelligence officials have held an extraordinary news conference getting detailed evidence of an alleged Russian spy operation against the international chemical weapons watchdog
They sent British agents were involved in wanting the pont which targeted the headquarters of the P. C. W. in the north and and
The ... release the names and so to just for a man who the accused of being from the G R U Russian military intelligence the British ambassador to the Netherlands to Ruth and that Britain was determined to work with it on line to disrupt the G R U
... today has made clear the G all you have interfered in free elections and the huge hostile can pay the cyber attacks against state and civilian targets
The jail you as an aggressive well funded official body of the Russian state they can no longer be allowed to ask for the rest of their ... against vital international organizations with a parent impunity
... former prime minister and not jeopardize on can define for us among sort of both appeared in court and calling them for her to think separate charges of corruption conditional funny report
Restaurants or blue kisses and smiled for the cameras
When she arrived at a Clinton Kuala Lumpur or that that day she pleaded not guilty to all Seventeen charges
Which included money laundering and tax evasion Mr ... is known for her love of luxury handbags and expensive jewelry have critics have called heard the Marie Antoinette or another ... says Malaysia
It got a lot of the high life but she has consistently rejected that criticism and had said her enemies at trying to discredit ... in the eyes of the Malaysian people
The Indonesian authorities say they will continue their search for survivors of ... quake and the islands of the ways they for another week of the concerns that the rescue effort was about to end in the city of ... hundreds of people I thought to be buried in a shopping center
The Turkish authorities have some in Saudi Arabia is a message there for consultations following the disappearance of a prominent journalist democracy donkeys a fierce critic of Saudis ruining establishment Here's Mark looming
On Tuesday Jamal ... into the Saudi ... lives in Istanbul to obtain documents that his forthcoming wedding he hasn't been seen since the journalist and commentator who's criticized the Saudi Government for its clamp down on the media and involvement in the war in Yemen
Reportedly told his Turkish fiance to contact the Turkish government if he didn't do much
Jackie's presidential spokesman says unquote believes Mr ... is still inside the consulates prompting speculation he's being detained but the Saudi news agency says it is investigating his disappearance after he left the ... building
BBC News
Were funded by you our listeners and by innuendo was a hundred Douglas seasonal style event in their window fashions gallery hunter Douglas that in your window in the ... and then your window dot com mess eye and ear when vision problems affect the way you experience life
Experience the difference mess idea can make locations that mess I into your dot org
And ... Subaru and root sixty and bill Maud it's back to school time and moms taxi as in service the new eight passenger all wheel drive Subaru Ascent available now
This is not it brought nine WVU our bucks here which I Clinton good morning ... and joining us now from the endless thread podcast is Emery secrets and good morning Emory more involved here we are on the last day and say it again Bob the last
Day of the w._b. you are ... if you've been waiting till the end to give the w._b. you are because you like to hear the number of fall
Your that last minute pleasure well today's the day and now's the time one eight hundred nine zero nine
Nine to age seven is the pledge line and why ... why give right now because there's still match money on the table a little bit more
Matching every pledge not dollar for dollar but adding fifty percent to your gift right now your money goes that much further to pay for the BBC and all the news here on WB you are but only if you give now at W. B. U. R. dot org or at eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight
Seven yeah him or his podcast is called the endless red but this is not the endless fundraiser this is not the endless match that we think we're going to be out of matching money at about ten o'clock this morning it is nine oh six right now in Boston so you know that doesn't give you all that much time to get your contribution
There to do the work that protects independent journalism here on WB you are and that work is just chipping in whatever you're able to give
You know that it will be worth fifty percent more thanks to matching money from our ... our society members
One last match one last hour to get in on it one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven is the phone number to call
Let me give you that again one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or you can get in on the match at W. B. U. R. dot O. R. G.
We have two hundred and sixty four thousand dollars that we still need to raise in this fundraiser in order to finish its excessively and to keep bringing new WB you are as you know at all of the news and information and coverage from you know your back yard to the nation or to the world we're we're going to the BBC here in a couple of minutes
You know what to believe that you are means to you and and if we're going to stay successful in the fundraiser we need to raise about a thousand dollars a minute that's a tall order when you think of it as oh my gosh thousand dollars a minute drive to give it a thousand dollars you know what if you can step up right now we could use that with this fifty percent match that is going to become Fifteen hundred dollars
For the news but really how this works is that everybody coming together giving what they can maybe it's ten dollars a month maybe it's fifty dollars a month you know what's right for you but if we're going to finish this successfully we need to hear from you right now one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven
You know ... him or you're just saying chip in chip in whatever then yes whatever you can which is a phrase that Jake late news just a minute ago and Jay when you said it I was thinking that a lot of people this weekend on this long holiday weekend because it's going to be a beautiful sunny weekend are going to be on the golf course hoping that they can
Chip the ball in from a short distance away from the from the green and you know
When you're on the golf course this weekend or you're out in the apple orchard because it'll be perfect for that or you're in the house talking to your loved ones
About the news that's going on this royal the nation in the last couple of weeks the cabinet nomination or any of the other big stories that are in the news including the U.S Canada Mexico trade deal and you're speaking a from a base of knowledge that you got from W. B. you are
How 'bout giving back right now no what you get from W. B. U. R. pledged to W. B. you are on this day before the long holiday weekend on the last day of the w._b. you are fun drive the number to call show your appreciation at one
Eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or give it do you say you are dot org
And pick up our protect independent journalism T shirt when you give at W. B. U. R. dot org or on the phone when you call one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven
A ten dollar a month contribution takes away that T shirt as our thanks your way of protecting independent journalism end that contribution will be worth Fifteen dollars a month for an entire year thanks to the last matching the fund drive
And if you look at Russian military doctrine Russian national security strategy of the information security and various other
Doctrine ... that have come out with the Russian Federation in the past few years it's clear that they think integrated that conflict to the future will be an integrated mix of military unknown ... an economic Susan political tools inside the tools
And therefore the G I use a critical policy that this was in the front and it was effectively for President Putin's go to secret agency for delivering full spectrum molten construct
And from the allegations that are being made to day um this cyber warfare operation has reached a a pretty sophisticated stage appalled that is from the botched attempt in the hey
Yes and actually I went to Catholic picking up the jail you too much was actually the last couple of operations are filed
The jail you had was off to Crimea and Ukraine a reputation for ... morality and ethics of pause the crime in operation which is not the most difficult because clearly it was like pro Russian audience potentially you know a lot of mosquitoes opposes living in crime it
It was nuts last a nuanced operation that type of which soldiers rarely get right
Or on the jail you um I think came out of that we'd great credit ... eastern Ukraine not so good but they couldn't hardly be playing because you had other Russian agencies involved that but the motion nigger who wasn't grace and they couldn't close in script ... fortunately but Saturday they killed somebody else which is clearly pretty awful [laughter]
Um so the there was a crushing now whether the jail you is too ambitious and doesn't have the capability and if I was in the ... the FSB I besides president who did the jail you're messing up our lonesome operations in the west for this sort of short term political backdoor
And the ... real damage to our ability to do our job so I'm not so sure whether the jar you is actually maybe since ... will say
This is usually Monday thanks Bob silly a member of parliament to Britain's governing conservative party with the Russians have yet to respond to the specific accusation of an attempted
A cyber attack on the P. C. W. but Russian foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria's Dakota described the more general allegations as mind boggling
What I Want to run for pointed out any discrimination everything ... syndrome Lonnie Nina reaching passing also the GI gave sided spy Clinton in ...
Pasadena mix jak which she mentioned nation if British colleagues truly knows no bounds actually stopped I Want to look at these people in the face
When let so to speak to the BBC Sarah rains foot or in Moscow and the Russian government pretty quick to come back with a denial about these allegations
Will suddenly the allegations that came out to have a knife and the British authorities are talking about the whole wave of cyber attacks that now
A Britain is pointing and accusing directly Russia and specifically the GI you went and she admitted she intelligence of carrying out so yes he just had that typically colorful and a scathing comments from as a hundred of of this morning guess how weak the
Briefing at dismissing everything and we have had specifically for a short ... comments in response to the allegations coming from the Hague ah the foreign ministry has cooled off western spy mania picking up pace so traditional traditional Russia response to also increasingly a damning accusations coming from the west
Just rush or actually mind the to the activities and solve the G all you are being exposed in this way
It's a it's a big question isn't I mean there are many honestly no such thing in the west to who say that Russia is simply a defiantly showing what's it can do and doesn't really worry too much about covering it traces that people here are less inclined to believe that those who analyze what's going on and on the life the workings of
The Russian a mind to the Russian athletes and how it's planning these things on that foremost get school they think a lot of this has just gone wrong but suddenly Russia is dealing with the consequences
Of what's coming out I think what's interesting is that Russia all along has been saying show is the evidence you know you keep making these accusations ... seals proof and of course that's a very
A big distinction between the accusations made in the u._k. a particularly about the ... replacing and those that have come out to the Hague and not just
In the Hague the full mend the Florida Keys that were on diplomatic passport they were sent back to Russia there was no question ever have a trial but in the case of the u._k. hope is that they may one day be a try it on that for all the ... evidence ... that means that the case as far as Russia's consent they say looks extremely weak
Center to many things so that that was the BBC's Sarah rains foot or speaking the from the Russian capital Moscow [noise]

We're funded by you our listeners and by Geico protecting people in their vehicles for over Seventy five years
Geico was proud to offer car insurance and more to Massachusetts drivers to additional information at Geico dot com or one eight hundred nine four seven auto that one eight hundred nine four seven a U T o invert ex
Fueled by the needs of patients families in health care providers VR tax invests in science to strike at the core serious diseases V. R. T. X. dot com
And this is not for nine do you mean you are ... Amri secrets in and Jay Clayton here for a couple of minutes before we go right back to the b._b._c. on WB you are reminding you that this is the last day of the W. B. U. R. fall fundraiser the last time you can pledge the w._b. you are this fall so we're asking you to consider
How important all the news you've been listening to on WB you are in the last year has been to you and then if the fall fundraiser is the fund raiser you choose to give at traditionally now's the time because it's over after today and in just a little while we're going to run out of manage money here on WB you are
Which is adding fifty percent to every pledge bumped up fifty percent if you give now while the match monies available
The number to call one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven the Web address W. B. U. R. dot org and we're asking you to give them now because even though we've had a great morning we still need to raise for the news two hundred and fifty seven thousand dollars today
Absolutely critical to raise that money and for you to join all the w._b. you our listeners who are stepping up to do their part
And now do your part if you haven't had a chance to yet because we have to raise this money because it is exactly the amount of money that it takes to continue to bring you the kind of independent journalism you get on WB you our
Listeners support protected protected from political influence it protected from corporate influence and that's what we're asking you to invest in and get your contribution matched fifty percent added to what you give right now
But only for a little bit longer we're going to run out of that match money pretty soon now so what you do to get in on the matches go to W. B. U. R. dot O. R. G. to make your contribution that's W. B. U. R. dot org or you can call this phone number eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven
We're down to two hundred and fifty five thousand that we need to raise now so in order to stay on track to finish this successfully into with all that number down to zero we need to raise about a thousand dollars a minute and that's a lot
The next minute and and give it a thousand dollars if that's comfortable for you that's going to get turned into Fifteen hundred dollars that's fantastic
Please do so right now when your money can go fifty percent further than usual if you can give ten dollars a month that's great if it's just five dollars a month that's wonderful if you can give you know a one time gift of of a thousand like I said or maybe two thousand or five thousand and you feel like you can give more generously
Please do because we need to get that number down to zero we only ask for what we need to keep bringing you the news coverage like the BBC and MORNING EDITION that you probably woke up to and listen to this morning one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven is the number to call or go to W. B. U. R. dot org
... and the beauty of what's happening this morning is that whether you give that five dollars a month is Emery said or whether you give that five thousand dollars all at once it's going to be worth fifty percent more but only while we still have this much money from the generous listeners
From the w._b. you are Maro society who put up that money encouraging you to give today on the last day take advantage of it before it runs out and don't forget when you give right now you're also in the drawing
But they're twenty Nineteen Subaru either the cross track or the outback it's your choice your choice just as it's your choice to give for the news or not and we hope you will your choice
The cars donated by city side Subaru and Belmont so take a chance on the cars while you're doing the sure thing and that is supporting the news on WB you are give at one eight hundred
Nine zero nine nine to eight seven or donate it does you be you our daughter or if you have never given before this is a really important
Time to join our community of givers with
The stakes so high in the decision that is looking like it's about to be made one way or the other soon a boat Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh the mid term elections coming up in early November
Lots at stake lots of reasons you need independent journalism and maybe you don't know but Ninety five and a half percent
In other words nearly all of the funding for WB ... comes from our community
That's why it's so important for you to join the people who are giving the w._b. you are with your financial support right now especially in this last little bit of matching opportunity during the last day of our fall fund drive
When times were good so you know if you've got to eat less rice and have less food for your family then don't think that I don't know how you feel I Do as well and and she was ridiculed in months
Or for that statement in Malaysia because it really brought home to a lot of ... that
She didn't understand what everyday people had to go through in order to just make a living and survive I think it's very important to say at this point though that any trial will only take place next year and so far
A ... and her husband have denied all charges and say that they're innocent when it comes to anything to do with them on MTV corruption scandal
Was Roswell months are seen as a powerful figure within the merits someone who perhaps took political decisions are so
Indeed she was and you know within the
Upper echelons of Malaysian society there was always a rumor that she was the one who ruled the roost and was in charge of many of the political decisions she was very well connected she is very well connected and she is somebody who
Made very high profile political connections both within the Malaysian Government and in other countries as well in particular
Places in the middle east countries in the middle east
Subspecies as a business correspondent coverage of us wanted to stay with us here on the news a lot more to come
We're funded by you our listeners and by arts Emerson presenting hadn't that Shakespeare's only son takes center stage and confirms what it means and what it costs to be hidden by the shadow of greatness
Ambition clashes with family in the Tour de force performance from a child's perspective now through October seventh at the Emerson paramount center arts Emerson dot org
And Beth Israel Deaconess looking for people with IDS who are interested in a mind body research study I'd be a study dot org
This is not for nine do you see you are where here letting you know time is pretty rapidly running out now if you want to give to do that you'd be you are during this the fall fundraiser because today is the last day your last opportunity to pledge to do with you but you are if you've been waiting to give well
You procrastinators stop because now is the time it's the last day your last chance one eight hundred
Nine zero nine nine to a seven is the number to call or give at W. B. U. R. dot org to support all the news to protect all the news to protect the independent journalism and Jay match money the fifty percent match money's now pretty quickly running out yes we've
Only about twenty two thousand dollars left and matching money and that'll be it for the fundraiser and
It is the last day anyway so really it's time to give an especially if you want to get in when your contribution can be worth fifty percent more than what you are able to give thanks to members of our society who will put that money on top of your contribution
Fifty percent more added to your ten dollars a month fifty percent more added to your two hundred dollars
Fifty percent more added to your thousand dollars any amount that you can give us the right amount to give but now is the time because again we're going to run out of that match you money pretty quickly with only twenty thousand dollars of it left
Order one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or you can go to W. B. U. R. dot O. R. G.
We're now down to Twenty one thousand dollars left of matching money so make your thousand dollars part of that or make your hundred dollars or make your five hundred dollars or you know whatever the amount is maybe it's ten thousand dollars you know what's right for you all of it is going to get turned into fifty percent more right now just for the next
You know however long it lasts so be a part of that right now I Know what it's like to be a double dip your listener because I'm One of you I turn on MORNING EDITION and
The second after my alarm goes off every morning I rely on WB you are to get me caught up to speed what happened overnight in the country around the world what does it mean how will it affect my life
If this resonates with you if you feel me right now if you know exactly what I'm Talking about [noise] be a part of this be a part of the community that makes WB you are possible one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven is the number to call please give us generously as you can
One eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or you can give a WVU our daughter word
Now since the phone's ringing since and pledges are coming in on the Web site we're down to twenty thousand in match money left and that's it then it's gone last match to the day
When you're listening to WVU are tomorrow morning and we're giving you the latest on all the news stories including what could be the procedural vote tomorrow in the Senate on the cabin on nomination you'll be listening to it absolutely
Fund raiser free because today is the last day of the fund drive so protect independent journalism protect on interrupted news here on WB you are in really short efficient fundraisers
By telling us that's what you like give it to do all you you are right now more news less fundraising give at one eight hundred
Ninety point nine WVU are
More WVU our daughter is
Eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven again be back after this interruption [laughter]
W. blooming already or Bible all come in and harmony yeah eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or W. B. U. R. dot org think about all that's going on in our country and how critical it is
For you and this community to have the independent journalism that you get on WB you are well Ninety five and a half percent of the funding for it
Comes from the community and that's why your support is so critical now and during this last bit of matching less than twenty thousand dollars left in matching money for the fundraiser
Your contribution worth fifty percent more than the amount that you give whether it's five or ten dollars a month you give
A hundred dollars five hundred dollars a thousand dollars last chance now for it to be worth fifty percent more
You can get in on that at W. B. U. R. dot org where you can contribute that's W. B. U. R. dot ORG or you can call the number one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven
So many reasons to chip in right now just one more to put on the table is that we've got a sweepstakes for a brand new twenty Nineteen Subaru courtesy of city side Subaru in Belmont if you win that you get to choose whether you want the outback or the cross track
Okay someone is going to win this car we've been hearing throughout the morning from people who have won it in the past someone is going to win it why not you one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to a seven
I don't want to call your head with numbers but I Do want to give you a few [noise]
Slipping away is your chance to pledge to do with you but you are and take advantage of the match because now only Nineteen thousand dollars left and match wanna eat folks just like you were listening to do would you be you are in love do you view are put their money
And are matching every pledge increasing your pledge five fifty percent but only until the last of it ends and again last of it is over
And again we only have Nineteen thousand dollars left we have two hundred and forty thousand dollars to raise today before we can say we've had a successful do would you be ... fundraiser and success means news for you in the months ahead so we're asking you to take away whatever you can
Is it ten or Fifteen dollars a month in a year's worth of giving at that level hopefully it's affordable or can you give a big I'm a a thousand dollars two thousand dollars five thousand dollars we've had a few ten thousand dollar pledges in this fundraiser it's the last day your last chance
Give at that level if you can forgive any amount because it's appreciate it and it does for the news one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight
Seven is the number to call or give it do you view R. dot org it's nine forty seven [noise]

You're listening to the news out from the b._b._c. on Julian marshal the FBI has now completed its investigation into allegations of sexual misconduct against
All the Supreme Court Brett Kavanaugh around the report is being sent to the U.S Senate ahead of its votes the White House approve the inquiry
Following testimony in front of the Senate judicial committee last week my Christine blood say forward to accuse Mr Kevin uh all sexual assault he's denied the allegations are that speak to the BBC's guy Donahue in Washington and dumb Gary what's in the report
We don't know precisely what we do know the White House is saying uh use me through it so says that
Ah there's nothing in the corporate the allegations against Christine Christine Blasey Ford made against Brett Kavanaugh
But also what you're seeing an unlimited sentences fruit paying to see this one copy of the report they called removed just can read it on even take notes from ... come to the phones and
What you're seeing is the ... over the narrative of this report already getting to be played out one Democrat Senate to just say that it's a cover up they wanted formal witnesses interviewed them were interviewed only nine was spoken to they wants to a couple of dozen
Was Republican sticking to this line this does nothing to cobra you have the the allegations against uh against the judge and that's what you're going to see over the next twenty four forty eight hours up ... to claim the narrative
... who did the FBI talked too
Late to the range of witnesses particularly some of those people from from this from school days or other acquaintances uh of these people that didn't that didn't talk to was Christine Blasey Ford has self old Brett Kavanaugh you could all you know given their evidence pretty public
... Boston homo Boston's largest radio newsroom Ninety two points have WB your way to bury in line point one WVU wage Brewster and streaming W. B. U. R. dot org W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR News station
At four hours GMT welcome to the news from from the b._b._c. World Service I'm Alex roots and aid workers are struggling to reach many of the victims of Indonesians of quake and tsunami
Paramedics and the victim as many of the houses damaged or collapsed and many of them also lost relatives more than I was in what goes on but now not even fifty people are able to well for
Donald Trump's tax if as being investigated by the U.S authorities the Liesl poisoned rye sin is discovered in to ... send to the Pentagon in Washington
The international criminal court is due to rule on America's decision to walk away from the Iran nuclear deal and the reason may be why baby too rough look like their moms
Could enable them later in life to be able to avoid inbreeding by saying this animal looks like it's related to me so I Do not make of it
You're listening to the b._b._c. World Service
I'm Joe Macintosh with the b._b._c. news hello the oath arches in Indonesia said both supplies of urgently need food and water began to reach people on the Indonesian island of sort of way see five days after it was struck by a devastating earthquake and tsunami at least Thirteen hundred people and then to have died Marie ... or ... is in ... in
This city is quite remade and who will say a lot of people run away to the health and they had to be told that they hated come down in ... he just now that we've been hearing from the national stage in the that they have
... cans away they can get some help on say we have all the building that need it hit the cleared but when it was difficult to get basic supplies like say one thing to the town it was it's a much harder to get heavy machinery to get rid of the rebel
People are still continuing to look for their loved ones
The White House has dismissed as misleading claims by the New York times that Donald Trump helped his family to avoid millions of dollars in tax in the Nineteen nineties
The paper has alleged that the president used dubious tax schemes and fraud to hike much of the fortune given to you and your siblings by their parents tax officials in the state of New York are investigating they'd bus though is one of the journalists involved in the report
Record shows that Donald Trump threw out is life on father's financial or starting from a trip
Through adolescence and actually you know
President Trump has mocked the testimony of Christine Blasey Ford news accused Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh of sexual assault when they were teenagers that a campaign rally in Mississippi the president mimic ... for the Senate Judiciary committee hearing last week
How did you get home I don't remember how'd you get there I don't remember where is the place I don't remember how many years ago was that I don't know [noise]

Was it and I don't know where's the
Upstairs downstairs where was I don't know but I had one that's the only thing I remember
An FBI investigation is underway in to the allegations against the judge
Iran's foreign minister and ... reef says his country is willing to hold talks with the U.S
But has expressed concern about the reliability of President Trump as a negotiating partner
In a BBC interview Missouri's rejected the idea of a ... like the one held sponge to Trump with North Korea's leader Kim Jong un he said that would only result in a photo opportunity in stark contrast to the comprehensive nuclear deal from which the U.S withdrawal this year
... was speaking in New York
Well news from the BBC
At least six members of stuff that won an Argentine is most prestigious state secondary schools have been removed off to a group of female students denounce them for sexual harassment goes up the national College of one of the series ran out a detailed description during a deployment ceremony of being physically touched and intimidated by teaches
A leader of Colombia's former FARC rebels who helped negotiate a peace deal with the government two years ago says the movement was naive to lay down its arms even my kids who is in hiding said modifications made to the agreement off to the group pretended over its weapons had been treachery the newly elected president even two K.
Was also described the peace agreement has flowed
For the first time in history the u._k. most senior ... will have a majority of female judges when he hears a case in London to today Dr ... has more details
... the Supreme Court third female justice alongside is president burn exhale and lady black
Today will free will sit in the case with two male justices giving record it served as a female majority
The door it's often said takes its time and he's taken the highest court in the line six hundred years to achieve this milestone one around fifty percent of the population female just twenty nine percent of court judges are women
Researchers in Australia predict that the country will be virtually free of cervical cancer as a public health problem within ten years
Roger given lumps at public health journal they say this is a result of the country's free vaccination program against the H. P. V. virus the leading cause of the disease under the scheme which started in the Nineteen nineties
Teenage girls and boys are vaccinated globally the disease claimed the lives of more than three hundred thousand women
Every year and that is the b._b._c. news
You're listening to the news or I'm from the b._b._c. World Service was me Alex wrote some
More than four days have passed since the Indonesian island to sue the way she was struck by a devastating earthquake and tsunami and the number of fatalities continues to rise at least Thirteen hundred people died when the coastal city of ... was inundated with water
Does the earthquake struck sold it lands tuned to liquid
... of trucks loaded with desperately needed supplies to food and water has now reached theloop put in some districts local people say they've received no help to to talk to an analysis of the hospital in ... uh teaching patients in the open atmosphere of off the shelves
Adult to that said many hospitals stuff were among the missing an engine
Started ever went back at the end of the whole thing and I bought a house
Where kids in this house but who are victims to we really need help thing going on for two days help arrived but when when the stuff coming there paramedics innocent victims many their houses and damaged or collapsed and many of them also lost relatives most of them was in ... and there's all sorts
Of ... but now not even fifty people are able to welcome to move in that something I Would I Am this I think
This man whose son adjust died was worried about getting his son's buddy ...
That'd be that the movie yeah
Please help I Need a car to bring my son's ... to my house and it's the only hope I have no other hope it's impossible to leave my son yeah this is my only hope I Wish someone could hear her sue the buddy my son could be brought her home town a can
Of it as I said well what do I did I Believe that the ...
There are fears some survivors may still be trapped under the rubble of buildings rescues and the military or using heavy equipment to search through the rubble of destroying buildings shortly before we came on the air I spoke to the BBC's Rebecca ... who's on the airports in probably
In front of me is a huge Q. of people with what position they have
Not been the hearts of getting a ticket on one of the
Full flight that they're promising will take off today this is now the fifth day the city hasn't had any electricity clean water is extremely limited as sanitation is now for the people who can I add desperate to get out of here
I just met with one woman and her children to
Hours to reach the airport they really it's about five kilometers away
I have seen no age she says it was a hit by the earthquake and then there was a landslide [laughter] he said the villages destroyed but rather than white them you need a loan that she decided she'd have to walk hearing that the military the flying
People out from the airport
Or the people making all the government's response to the tragedy
People are being incredibly patients in areas that I have seen a white thing for what they can get the people say they want more one man's head for me I don't know when the government will pay attention to what we have really desperate he as
You said we're going hungry and people are concerned about clean water pad that's the main people sometimes that we need running very laws
And those are limited petrol in the city out of the government's saying it's going to be at least another three days before the ... can be put on here and people are not getting
It's going to be hard because the road of the u._s. dollar into a financial system is pervasive problem on the it is going to be difficult but the choice is also very clear whether the natural community is going to allow the United states
So that's the uh the wrong type will try that one again just amendment

Plenty of Saudis love music but there are also those in the deep
That it's on religious grounds they see music is an Islamic and they would look down on musicians in this case the family the unnamed women objected to her plan to marry a man who played in ... D a string instrument
The local media said relatives argued that as a musician he was religiously incompatible another cool back that view and it's that it is being concerned in an appeal
The woman described ... as a goods pious man and she still wants to marry him she indicated she might cost the royal court to intervene on her behalf
This woman is a bank manager in charge of many employees but in a private life she's no free to make decisions
Under the kingdom's traditional guardianship laws and male relatives have to give that permission to marry to travel and do much else in so far at least they've managed to ensure that the musician ... player will not become part of the family
Iran's foreign minister ... refers to the BBC that support from Europe to preserve Iran's nuclear deal in the face of American pressure
Has been faster than expected Mr Zarif was speaking in New York after a week in which the e you announced it would set up a new financial mechanism to allow companies to buy Iranian oil and do business in local currency is rather than the u._s. dollar to avoid you us sanctions
A chief international correspondent ... says a mystery how hard it would be to make that system where
It's going to be hard because the role of the u._s. dollar in the financial system
Is pervasive prevalent on the it is going to be difficult but the choice was also very clear whether the natural community is going to allow the United states to execute room
In the past it did but based on a set of laws but not based on the tests that change every other day
President Trump had a very harsh warning anyone who doesn't isolate Iran will face extreme consequences now what about a country like Britain which once more than anything else to maintain its trading and political relationship
Prime minister may as well as president Macron and everybody has said that we are committed and we are committed to see that Iran enjoy the economic there isn't much of the other Europeans
Probably made better commitments than anybody expected
Then it was two times they those political commitments in two mechanisms and I believe those mechanisms are going to be in place now the next us
Which is the most difficult than important this is to see whether those records of ... three all going to be but it's a bit more patient it doesn't mean that the patients would never run out
But we all going to be if it's a bit more patient to see
There is a way out you could take President Trump's offer to have a summit with President Rouhani is that impossible
But nothing is impossible but you'll see rehab or what the outcome of President Trump's summit with President Rowhani would be a photo opportunity
On a two page document rehab a hundred and fifty pitched off which is the richest city which was negotiated won't buy would not only by Iran and the United states but by six other powers
And having negotiated that the and having been involved in this process for very long time I can assure President Trump the U.S will not get a better
Fix the chairman Kim Jong un did get something else going from being public enemy number one in the United states to being a leader that President Trump has said he's fallen in love with because it is beautiful letters
You'll see international relations his mouth but a fallen give up its not relations is about respecting obligations
Iran's foreign minister Javad Zarif speaking to lease to set steward has some other stories from our news desk
Man miles leader own sons sued she has been stripped ... alternate Canadian citizenship falling refusal condemn atrocities by a nation's military against the ... mostly minority the move was made a fish a lot to Canada Senate voted to revoke the symbolic on a
First time it's ever done so the privilege was grounded ... she in two thousand and seven bitter international reputation has been tarnished by have perceived inaction on recognition crisis
French President Emmanuel Macron has accepted the resignation of his interior minister says you're a ... twenty four hours after rejecting the move Mr alone set on Tuesday that he intended to step down despite the president's wishes he plans to run for election as the man in the city of ... with this report is just ...
Those I think nation which one of the stuff at the environments in sports ministers he'll just
The way things have been languishing in a little more than that you can sense when does this and not cause any support for the presidency cynical um had been serving as mayor Neal when Emanuel like home made him interior minister but it's still that relations between the two men salad this summer it was a scandal surrounding what are the president's buddy God's
The Venezuelan president Nicolas Maduro says a number of key financial transactions will not be conducted in the new crypto currency the Petro
These include real estate sales payment folk tales and a half as Mr ... said the picture I Would be Venezuela's international digital currency it will also pay for aviation fuel
The number of international airlines flying to Venezuela is reduced dramatically in recent years with Seventeen Kerry is holding their flights to Iraq has because of
Financial problems and security introduction of the Petro he's part of a government plan to bolster Venezuela's economy which has been suffering from hyperinflation and evaluation for years
An appeals court in Poland has ruled that a Roman Catholic or to pay record damages to a victim of a ... the coach in the western city of ... the society of Christ fathers pay damages of two hundred and Seventy thousand dollars and the monthly payment of almost two hundred dollars to the woman
Who was sexually abused by one of its priest when she was Thirteen
The priest was arrested in two thousand and eight and sentenced to four years in prison
The Brotherhood it appealed against an earlier court ordering the payment argue that it couldn't be held responsible for the actions of one of its members [noise]
And a rabbi of whiskey is expected to sell the between nine hundred thousand and one point one million dollars to note shipments constantly ...
The bustle of color in that area a dummy Nineteen twenty six has been described as the holy grail of whiskey the bus was expected to attract attention for collectors around the world what are they just look at it and not drink it
Slightly outside my price range yeah
Scientists say they've discovered a dwarf planets like case it in the out somebody just reaches of the side of the system is always suggests the existence of an undiscovered giant planets possibly dwarf planets
Like those of two other similar one seems to be influenced by the gravity of a much more massive object Richard house reports
Astronomers using a massive and highly sophisticated eight major telescope in Hawaii found a new dwarf planet beyond the orbit of Neptune it's taken three years carefully studying the data ... confirmed that the object of the Gulf then is it dwarf world probably about three hundred kilometers in diameter
What researchers are excited about is that the behavior of its orbit suggests there may be a giant planet nearby something that astronomers have speculated about for some time
Measurements indicates that the government orbits the sun once every forty thousand years it's thought that the dwarf planet could be one of many on the world and this remote and mysterious region of space
And listening to the news or from the b._b._c. World Service the main news this hour the Indonesian authorities are trying to step up the relief effort following last week's earthquake and tsunami
With desperately needed aid arriving in the city of ... thanks for listening
Distribution of the b._b._c. world sort of some of us has supported by the three ... addressing the world's most challenging problems with the convergence of artificial intelligence audio tea and elastic cloud computing
More at sea three I O T taught a are you and your wiser Craig Burden handcrafted in small batches for a full flavored sipping experience forty seven percent alcohol by volume wise you Craig Kentucky street bourbon whiskey barge term Kentucky think wisely drink wisely
From Boston University this is Ninety point nine W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR News station where the latest news and analysis at W. B. U. R. dot org [noise]
This is Charlie goal have been the forecast showers and possibly a thunderstorm overnight areas of fog lose in the number fifty chance of showers Wednesday morning otherwise most cloudy skies with hides in the upper sixties
You're talking about his policies and ... on a platform for don't says yes I
Had to pack the woman would be put out insurance in the house having guns
And my mother and her ... she can make a big cakes limited for brandish she that ... it was that cannot winter
Marjorie Dina's mother was clever well educated industrious she'd married a girl Garrett's young cavalry officer but the primary life they chose turned out to be hard to imagine imagine
Combat depression of the Nineteen thirties the finances deteriorated and what social life that had been died away
The family was split when relations in England paid for the older boys to go to school or Georgian John were away for years at a time
Dine on how to other siblings San distractions from the ... and they have the priorities
[noise] looking at these records that you've found [noise] funds
Your television than this one is that
And then this fall and wants to be happy folks draw no Nanette onion and maybe even John governor's no construct [noise]
My favorite for the last time I saw Paris and good night Vienna
You ought to you on the ground and so you would play these records on the run of the phone was
Not in the world is just something that can age we have to buy the south and chickens and we have seen all the edge before they'd be so
You must have been you know I Can't go on I kinda waiting not drinking ... no ... [laughter]
[noise]
That takes me back
Gun and na na
The Harlem she lost a lot of them are running the guy who cares [laughter] right but probably have some [laughter] than I Am
Dad would say rather than thinking oh my gosh is
That just to sit inside the door a
Columbine and went to school or at home ... fourteen but it wasn't real school we had one we'll cover less my grandmother sends out from England I think a nameless miss hunt and then we had various people stayed in ...
What are we sending us a good price or they look for the house
But with some really isn't a big time yes
I cried and I can remember I was sleeping on the very end I used to sit in the summertime when it was ... my mother will be Memphis is things like that left ... sat down and talk to me it just gave me a magazine just can't take your mind off
Things just it wasn't a substitute for a hug and a couple
You know in our family nobody is still ... there was no one to talk to you on hold you to listen
To be abandoned as a child is Bob preparation for life Dina's mother for all her gifts with herself the productive a hotshot bringing which almost certainly called the treatment of Dinah she was very tough when you
... similar after I came to Canada might be short says I couldn't eat my monthly take me
Out of the dining room and she was forced me to eat it for me then I'd go upstairs and be shaped was terrified that cheap here and it's like the radius of trouble I Would wake up at five and the more money
Terrified breakfast because of the performance
And you remember that today you remember the guy who clearly
I Do I remember when the dishes malice towards how come she outlaws
What because you'd be you'd vote for something you drop something did you ever received praise from Harold encouragement
You know I was just criticize [noise]
Huh now and I think it's it's up to the horrible and it completely different from how treatment to Sylvia mhm
This is my mother who would go on to leave Canada after finishing university and returned to England relations between Sylvia and Don ... to put it mildly sometimes called ... sat in childhood
She she had to be able to do that give everybody else it would be good at school like everybody else was it
Is so she she has a lot more social life and I guess it did you compare yourself to one answer I think when you see family and your other two girls is a
Famous jealousy you felt resentment tool so yes it was just an ... and
Everything I Know about dying or the conversations we've had over the years how far too albums and less as confirms however lines on animals as a sauce and recipients of love
She thought health a dozen cops at once and dogs are plenty she looks up the strays and nuts is injured or back to health and she's told me she finds animals more reliable than human beings
I just found a picture of cleaning up when I was twelve my godfather gave me this pony beautiful
She really is a little girl and she's got such styles that the raging so what was she she's home of your mind off of re being home garden
... probably sleek well up to ... to ... pounds just write it for fun
And there was I Can't explain it but it was a wonderful feeling of freedom children do you have a shelf that from you know but I left it
[laughter] [laughter] do you think that was among the best moments of your life because most of the feelings of my life yes
Sometimes when I signed on gun you found ... reflects how how is the nights you
Have this horrible like most of the time
Just kept thinking and drinking I guess we're sort of worry things
So you you're anxious nights I suppose so yes [noise]
... [noise] not really worth while [noise]
Sort of everything's got cookie
Plugs an effort to get out of bed it's enough everything for next semester to discuss the seem
Worthwhile for the kinds of sluggish ... which moved from
In Nineteen forty one the one sibling who might have made a last indifference to die in a sense of
Isolation George the oldest of the five was killed over the southern Mediterranean another abandonment to add to the others now decades later isolation has been for the shopping by age
... doesn't have any contemporaries left the nice Canadian women who have rallied round taking her shopping in helping in the garden or generational to younger than her
Guy and
Think oh I I thought you some coffee if you
Sell you anything eight am I going to make it a lot of action okay so you are kept as that's going to give you lots of any [noise] you know it's not for them [laughter] I understand that I think unless hang up and see if we can
Do to ever OK yeah yes if I don't think that she says yes we argue we're all tied together golfing but you know [noise] just to walk
In mind the boss [laughter] I'm ready to get now because I went to the company you present something to show something has to go on the top shape [laughter] [noise] [noise] [noise]
John nice if you will ruin your kitchen is lost it with a reminder of the things you need to take
Numbers that need to be cold instructions in case you have an accident it's ... it's almost like the whole place is close with instructions and remind of climate perceiving you never see you know
Now I can see
It so he he decides about your medical was a lie to your ... your financial if as you do as well and looking off to the house all those decisions to do with you know the root for just about not
Up to now I Do on my own decisions about everything you have completely injury and that's a completely independent on [noise]
Do you remember I sent you I'm
A book by ... ... and that was a period in your life when you have lots of cat and he was surrounded by here and I sent it to you because I thought that's what you were the story of the past by ... by ... by itself
You're listening to Ninety point nine W. B. U. R. FM Boston home of Boston's largest radio news remnant you point seven WB you wait just very eighty nine point one WVU wage Brewster and streaming at W. B. U. R. dot org W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR News station [noise]
Hello and welcome to the news like from the b._b._c. World Service with James cut me Lawrence Block good to have you with us [noise]
But I just on the ground from Indonesia off the surrounding area like so many thousands
Still without hubs food
Even boards that desperation he's on the rise and we'll hear from our correspondent also what's on the agenda for two hundred and sixty six Catholic bishops who were meeting instead of a visit the rights agenda we hear about the control the seat once again disturbing the churches attempts to get on an even keel off the serial
Allegations of abuse have with a business yes big international hotel chains and got big expansion plans to Africa and we got to be talking about a sound we can't play the emergency alerts broadcast in the U.S it gets a molten twist in a few hours time
In the shape of compulsory text message from the president what could go wrong [noise]

I'm Stuart Macintosh with the b._b._c. news so
The ... in Indonesia say book supplies of urgently needed food and water has begun to reach people on the Indonesian island just a little ac five days after a devastating earthquake and tsunami killed at least Thirteen hundred people Rebecca hidden ... reports from probably one of the worst affected areas
The city still without power and clean water than those who can afford to trying to get out to ... thousands of people have been waiting at the airport in the ... it's getting on flights five days after the earthquake and tsunami the ... is beginning to pick up speed teams
You know aid agencies have arrived bringing with them much needed supplies across the city people are searching for missing loved ones on the heels volunteers a feeling of ... grave with the bodies of their dads
The White House has dismissed as misleading claims by the New York times that Donald Trump helped his family to avoid millions of dollars in tax in the Nineteen nineties Pete oppose has more details the New York
Times have you seen a trove of documents tax returns and financial records would show Donald Trump engaged in fraudulent schemes in the Nineteen nineties
The newspaper the times Mr Trump set up a fight corporation with his siblings to disguise millions of dollars in gifts from the parents the newspaper says much of this money came to Mr Trump because he helped his parents don't tax is
A lawyer for the president said the allegations were falls under there was no fraud and no tax evasion spokesman for the New York Texas authorities said officials were reviewing the allegations and vigorously pursuing old appropriate of news investigation
President Trump has mocked the testimony of Christine Blasey Ford's who's accused his Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh of sexual assault when they were teenagers
Do real because laughter from his supporters at a campaign rally in Mississippi the president mimic to um says at the hearing last week repeated these saying I don't know I don't know
Iran's foreign minister ... says his country is willing to hold talks with us but has expressed concern
About the reliability of President Trump is negotiating partner in a BBC interview Mr Zarif rejected the idea of a summit like the one held by Mr Trump with North Korea's leader Kim Jong un
He said that with any result in a photo opportunity in stark contrast to the comprehensive nuclear deal from which the U.S withdrew earlier this year
You know what's happened in the United states from President Trump came to office was not ... it was simply a change of administration and the nuclear need is not a person on the it's an international agreement [noise]
You're listening to the latest world news coming to you from the BBC
At least six members of stuff that one of ... most prestigious state secondary schools have been removed up to a group of female students denounce them for sexual harassment the girls at the national college foreigners Saturdays read us a detailed description during a deployment ceremony of being physically touched and intimidated by teaches
A leader of Colombia's former FARC rebels who helped negotiate a peace deal with the government two years ago says the movement was naive to lay down at some
Even my kids who is in hiding said modifications make to the agreement topped the group pretended over its weapons have been treachery in a letter to the government's peace commission which to my kids said the economic and social ... integration of the rebels into Colombia society hadn't taken place
The French President Emmanuel Macron has accepted the resignation of his interior minister share a cologne twenty four hours after rejecting the move
Was to kill 'em sit on Tuesday that he intended to step down despite the president's wishes he plans to run for election as the ... the city of legal relations between the two men have worsened since the scandal earlier this year surrounding president Macron's buddy ...
Full the first time in history the u._k. is most senior cool we'll have a majority of female judges when he hears a case in London to today Dr Coleman has more details
On Monday lady out and was sworn in as the Supreme Court third female justice alongside is president barren as hail and lady black
Today will free will sit in the case with two male justices giving the court it's served as a female majority
The law it's often said takes its time and he's taken the highest court in the line six hundred years to achieve this milestone while around fifty percent of the population seem out just twenty nine percent of court judges are women
And that's the b._b._c. news
[noise]
Thank you for the latest on a warm welcome to Newsday BBC well service James Lawrence with the bishops from five continents gathering in Rome it's as soon as you want to engage with young people that that is not going to make the headlines on its own we also hear how scientists trying to prepare
For mass chemical attacks report that can both reassuring along with the same time we get a bit of American cultural history about presidential alerts 'cause every mobile phone in the country is about to get a text we find out why [noise]
We saw in Indonesia with a number of people known to have died in friday's earthquake and tsunami has written it almost Thirteen hundred and fifty the death toll jumped on Tuesday for crazy can some figure eight hundred and forty four the quake struck
It seems to me that engulfed the coastal city of how police guarding shops against loses as people desperately searched for food fuel and ... to ... we can speak now the BBC's how ...
In ... and as I understand how that is a place where people from time to another affected areas has gone to seek help [noise]
Yeah they've been lifted I buy some of the ah in any isn't half full ... these jets
The delivery day it's a positive then they came and got onto that cost to be taken from just as I was speaking to some of the survivors
Stories that old compelling as you would expect heartbreaking in some cases you
Who's clutching a picture of a two year old girl who don't being seen since Friday and they told us that she was too young to even
Speak explains the south the only would she knew what mom and dad
Were desperate for news of her so they're a red profits and I've been trying to help people who are missing family members but tragically
The theories that many millions in Harlem I may well be buried [laughter]
Quite a bit of concern about what many see as the slow pace of the relief assets even the un saying it's like surprising that it's taking so long to get to some of the affected area [noise]
Yeah ... is a country tragically familiar with natural disasters in any
Conceded that response housing maybe optimal they went to well prepared as they could have been not said we wouldn't have said supplies being slow ... truckloads of aid in Huntington is an army and flow owners have these jets and also Red Cross um effort
To take medicine and medical staff and search and rescue team
But it's all reaching kind of three fold not even funny place
Underneath that is just incredibly large we know
That that ... hundred
Just in the average they been able to check the funding for these
Teams have struggled to get to and that's where the need to break just maybe not in such and such as part of new old a ten dollar a bit further afield motel
Is there any realistic hope at this point to still finding people the light [noise]
People get attached to that idea that maybe miraculously things on
The people could be taken
We do do is actually visit the region of the moment he is promising
Um probably about two sides of the ... on our new construction on but we're seeing an increasing amounts of conversion opportunities
And last year we we announce that helps in Africa gross initiative where we can make the uh uh up to fifty million dollars to support the growth of existing ourselves to the heights that can can vote and come into office them a predominantly under the Hilton the doubled tree by helps and
And the um ... collection by hopes and so we are seeing an increasing amount says some conversions but I'm probably about ... so they
Can still get construction most have held in Africa are independently as all the all positive large groups who is that demands that for people who want to stay in international branded hotels
Where ... where we study believe Starbucks eight days or a significant under supply of of quality accommodation right across the ... and then
I went the demand something other than the in the national conflicts but in ... and domestic travel is once and I I'm I'm older than the ... mall um consistent ground experience
And what does not mix who is staying in you and you ... take you'll you hotel income gay presentable level the customers lodge he'd be coming from
The the one in the Congo is predominantly a business hotels that says a de ... is still very much under develops in in that market sides that's predominantly I'm a mixture of international ... and into regional er visits as in the Congo so the related or oil and gas and
Um additional additional industry
Now the un says that the ten fastest growing cities in the world over the next two years will be an Africa say
How is not changing how international hospitality companies use to come to that we know the various big chains in addition to yourself or announcing big expansion planned isn't out of a scramble to try to to cash in on that economic growth in Africa
Or as you said there are five of the world's fastest growing economies are in Africa we are seeing the trend of uh wrapped it up and I thought you shouldn't as well um ... forty two percent of Africans one billion people live in cities and that's expected
Increase significantly you've ... you've got megacities
Megan in like ... like like a ... half the population of ... to ... million in the next five genes and a ... a significant concentration of our activity is um I actually
Moved off competitors right like nine months Michael ... Michael ... vice president for development and Hilton Hotels business thank you [noise]

Right now to an item which begs for a sound effects introduction but we mustn't because we don't want to break the law
Are we talking about the emergency broadcast system every so often old American radio and TV channels sound a squawking great ching a lump to test the system which in theory would be used with us every one to a threat to
Oversee we don't want to cause any alone by playing the alarm so we're just going to talk about the ... there's a new addition to a to keep up with the times a text message or let a fourteen twenty later today everyone
And we mean literally everyone is going to receive a presidential election it's a text from the president and it's the first test of the latest debate of
The emergency alert system you cannot opt out of the moves however since voted by everyone that there were some interesting issues behind this and history as well and
We got it from Andrew for she needs a who is with Harvard Kennedy School bell ...
The alert system has been around for about fifty five years as a way for the president to quickly send a short message to the nation and the case of pretty much only sudden nuclear attack where there was not a lot of time to furnish that message
Um that message was always going to be carried on radio and television and the most Americans will probably recognize the shrill attention tone that it broadcast or from the regular tested it had been going on right sought tomorrow's different because tomorrow will be the first time a system that was built over the last few years to allow it broadcast
Or directly to cell phones is being used
It's interesting because cell phone's been around for a while because if the government is catching up a little bit late
Right this was actually a implemented as a couple of years ago during the Obama administration as a way to say the civil defense status that is the emergency alert system
Or needs to be modernized and now that we have this new phenomenon which is to say everyone in America more or less has a cell phone on their person um wouldn't it be nice to be able to reach them immediately
Old television and radio channels would come together and we'll broadcast from wherever the prison walls or do a a sort of a pre recorded broadcast
Essentially yes there was um a FCC requirements um the Federal Communications commission
Or in the U.S that you had to participate if you are public broadcast or a private broadcaster for that matter ... so if you are one of the primary channels for your city or your region
You would be um made to carry a message or the or more just see it where it would go off and they would say this is a message from the White House stay tuned for more information stay on this channel
... and they would they would do tests so Americans with ... with the sound but there would be told that this is a test of the system of the of the emergency broadcast system
Yes there was a required a monthly test and some places the weekly tests as well but often you know it was a midnight or a little bit later so I'm a lot of people found out by when they snoozing on the couch or it would make them up in a very ...
That sounds like a cultural thing this is a Trump to learn the Americans know the left side of America wouldn't know that is that's a great detail I Love that [noise] so do people talk about this
There's been this rising tide of awareness where people are realizing that this is something that's going to happen this is coming straight to everybody and I think the part that's really getting people burn is the fact that it will say it will be labeled at the top of the the text message that arise as presidential alert
[noise] yeah I'm a social media message from President Trump I'm not wouldn't be confusing would ditch [noise]
Uh no I think at some point or another
That is what everyone is fearing is that the system will be taken away from its original purpose and that will suddenly get an emergency alert to the entire nation that says no collusion but there are also to road blocks I think having that happen right the first one is that is legal they did set this up to say
There is a way to you this is only for emergency situations and anything else especially politically would be illegal now a lot of people say well maybe that doesn't slow you down to legal part won't stop someone who has already done so much to a scandal as the country
Um but the actual activation procedures it would go from the White House in in Trump's authority only but
The procedures would be handled by Shima so the officials there would have a modicum of oversight to say the least I don't think that it would be like his Twitter account where he had on constrained access at any time
Right so it is slightly filtered by the emergency management I'm a people and presumably Yukon reply to this text right
Took control of the system though and sent some message either in farce or in you know the port city to the entire country in the wrong moment right that that would be a a worse situation almost than having a real message come through a at an untimely time
Yeah reply old would lead to trouble with ... or ... or of the ... center at the Harvard Kennedy School or just to spoil your anticipation that message are we going to get says this
This is a test of the national while this emergency alert system no action is needed but coming from the you know are we going to get all caps luck for example well this is this is the thing I'm I'm ah in fact will want to enter and other people are
Interested eight and is the kind of the fact that many people who have a policy Xanax due to the current ... of the White House will just kind of go I don't want to miss the president's going to ignore it
Even when it could be quite important and likewise if somebody else we're in the White House
The other half of America would possibly avoid it as well
As he was saying um it just feels as the president count really send a personal message or the bear in mind that these false alarms do actually have to remember Hawaii that there was a there was a a a false alarm of a ballistic missile attack which went home for thirty minutes before the pug was actually pulled the noise by the way from quite pleased we can't play it so you I was playing it
On my computer when I came in and suddenly the whole office was looking at me is that screeching and unpleasant you wanted Andrew ... thank you very much in the ... already got twenty pounds to fourteen twenty beep [noise]
Distribution of the b._b._c. World Service in the U.S has made possible by American public media producer and distributor of award winning public radio content
Eight PM American public media with support from Drexel University Drexel University is academic bottled prepares visionary leaders to address the challenges of a changing world more at Drexel dot edu slash ambition can't wait [noise]

From Boston University this is not the point nine W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR News station
With live streaming at W. B. U. R. dot org [noise] this is ... in the forecast showers and possibly a thunderstorm overnight areas of fog
A little rings are studying like Liberia urban even rural areas of Liberia but there's still an issue because the people who use mobile phone might be of course a little bit different than people who don't use that and so we had to use a master
Techniques after to make sure the ... and look at some samples from the the people got data from from the mobile phone to make sure that makes sense for the you know the larger population
Yeah 'cause I can imagine in a place like Liberia there's some pretty remote rural places where people either don't have a cell phone network maybe in some cases people who are illiterate maybe some of the people who need to help most are the ones you find the most difficulty reaching
Yes no that's of course they're important especially in these situations so we have to be a kind of put in a little bit systematically meaning the wood for example over sample at places where it's more under developed there'll be less acts
That and then we took a cat into account characteristics of people not just um what they were funded in terms of their health care but you know what they're since you economics were and other things to make sure we're getting information on it at a good a distribution of you know kind of good representation of the population
And I wonder about these text messages because in ... in many places it seems to me the ... the taxes the way of getting information around quickly
Yeah exactly you know these kinds of things are always changing what people are using for Arctic
Technicians were okay let me just a really good you know samples people because it's still possible for the ... you know people to get ten messages that we send me given incentives so people answering the survey they would get some amount of air time so that kind of was a little bit incentive to respond to that
Message but definitely people you know I think in terms of research exploring these different modes like what's that
Other kind of a new technologies would be important to augment you know our ... our public health efforts as well
As ... as she says yeah the idea is that it can be used at other crises
Around the globe is well on the way we talk about the green Sahara a fascinating period in history and how humans are back then ... says tens of thousands of years ago ... clever than humans now managing diversification also ...
Not report all the way can also we go to Texas as well so it looks to come plus the sport but now we're going to cross to the states we're going to be one of the journalists behind
The big story in the New York times and in the American media which is an investigation into President Trump's family and the ... schemes which great benefit to the president of the report talks about Donald Trump receiving large amounts of money from his parents are nothing wrong with that of course as you were about to hear
A but it sort of contradicts the image that was presented to being a self made man to obey started with a million do those those are his words not mine are President Trump's lawyers who wrote a responded to the times story saying the allegations
Of fraud and tax evasion all one hundred percent false
And highly defamatory or so for the president has broken with the practice of past presidents and has refused to release his tax returns there's programs ... spoke to one of the journalists who have the story ...
...
But the central narrative that Donald
Trump has told throughout his life and especially in his political campaign for the president of the narrative that she is a self made billionaire basically started with a million dollar loan from his
Father and turned it into this incredibly global um car but that narrative that is actually completely at odds you record itself that we when the earth record of many tens of thousands of pages of documents from any side the real estate empire of drug Trump the father of the president
And that record shows in fact
That Donald Trump tree out of his life is deeply dependent upon his father's financial support starting from the age of three and a support continued not just through adolescence and ... those are actually you
Know into his forties or fifties he was being paid anywhere from five six seven million dollars a year from his father's financial empire
One wants to be what's wrong with that I gave my kids money once in a while
Yeah no there's there's absolutely nothing wrong with parents supporting their kids the part where there is something wrong is that the amount of money that Donald Trump is she from his father was significantly increased by a series of tax gears very dubious Tex gay and
So on your back on the borders are we talking about ...
Talking about tax evasion taxes tax evasion is illegal and what we discovered was the Trump family for example created a sham corporation good disguise large cash gifts
From Trump to his children is if they were legitimate business transactions that in fact they were a
Disappointment plus they tear that Trump's lawyer has denied visas and the basically the month of the optical ... story
They have said that I should remind your listeners as well I Would encourage your listeners please
To read the story for themselves you actually will see that we made available for readers Will Shortz documents that we used to reach
Some of the conclusions that we reached tax returns invoices banking records check it's all there because of course it's important for us especially at a
Time in so much good media sort of accused at stake is to kind of show our math
And yet it's very likely that he's base is going to push the button dismissed the story is
Some little pot and competing against their mind
I think that that's unfortunately true in this very tribal like edge that we live in
[noise] ah that's David Bosco one of the journalist involved in that report in New York Times speaking to ... children on looking food greatly to the next cash gift [laughter]
I like just in the White House is that they say that all schools misleading and the IRS was heat and signed off on the transactions I'd rather made headlines right now and you stay on the b._b._c. was service Indonesian authorities are trying to step up their relief efforts let me know sweets us quake and tsunami was desperately needed aid arriving in the city part of
Iran's foreign minister told the BBC that his government is willing to discuss Washington's objections to the international media deal reached a three years ago was expressed his little skepticism you can hear that I interviewed coming up and you stay a little bit later
And female students athletes school in Argentina have used a diploma ceremony to accuse stuff sexual the wrestling
Match you can't even see it with a sport it's nice ... newspaper a mock at various times in day to ram a trade is not holding any punches this morning off the shelf defeats full name in Moscow yesterday and the European champion sneak C. S. K. I. taking a one Neal when we do a very and he goes
On the front page this morning in very large types I point out that these five hours in Ninety minutes since round Madrid scored a goal lettuce three games on the top two competitions plus a little bit more from the previous one his courage does come when you keep creating challenges in believe he will be more accurate
I said coach you end up protecting the will surely be feeling the pressure in Madrid after all he is following the danger than the man who took him to three consecutive champions me crowds now someone else who still feeling the pressure Marino and Manchester United
On is the captain ... how how is it to the left side
On the final whistle being in that for some years I ride own profit not too many because most of the Manchester United supporters of the money left the stadium honey frankly miserable performance as a result
Nail nail it finished
Reaction at the end that is just watch them on a jet ... briefly not to say about the reaction
Freedom of speech but surely chosen not to say as a respect for
Freedom of speech which was also had his own son to a question about the strong attack on him before the game from club legends pools goals who was coming in for
Television last night a ton of dodged the rally Maria which is unlike any other highlights from the European action last march a thumping five no win for ... or Victoria's secrets and
I don't want to draw from buying Munich against ... which is not the sort of result applying funds expect either
Over details on the BBC Sport websites plenty more games tonight including not plenty of time to live a full
... bus home by which remain wind blades to Barcelona found the semi final first like matches or be African champions leak out his premarital ... step closer to making history is the first come from that country to reach the final competition one new husband went over to misuse Esperanza ... thanks to relate gold keeps them or
Find platform to progress and the other match H Trump's champions I lost rebate Algerians on Trump's chief true new in car wrecks the second like Chinese
Or and a couple of weeks and we told you yesterday about the swift visit to the president of the confederation of African football to Cameron almost
Held talks with the president of the country cold beer off to find a company or similar types and he reiterated the president's ... there are no plans to remove the country as host of the men's Africa come nations next year I have of course been persistent doubts about the preparations
Homo Boston's largest radio news Rome now did you points out the w._b. your way to bury eight or nine point one WB your wage Brewster and streaming WVU our dog or W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR News station

Coming up from the b._b._c. World Service the remarkable story of the Jewish orphans who survived the horrors of a Nazi concentration camp just days off they liberation thing for the British soldiers who freed from [noise]
One of the children's spoke to a BBC reporter in the ... comes to a ...
I Can't even remember the names of the Nazis or the ss men here in the camp
Had him never had that ... that that's not the down have made it sound among faction when he left standing in line for Santa ... around you can count on that
Plane speak English don't go is now an elderly woman and I joined her as she goes back perhaps the very last time the site of her terrible no deal that scene the children of ... with me my clenching off to the news
On ... Macintosh with the b._b._c. news although
The authorities in Indonesia said both supplies of urgent need food and water begin to reach people on the Indonesian island of ... five days after it was done by a devastating earthquake and tsunami the BBC's held Griffiths is in the island's main city of Mac has a
Healthy have conceded there hasn't been maybe I'll you know they wouldn't have had to be said we wouldn't have said for probably think flow from his truck close enough to at least jets and also Red Cross Avon has
To take medicine and medical staff and rescue team [noise] but it's overreaching kind of free fall now they have
Struggle to get to
The White House has dismissed as misleading claims by the New York times that Donald Trump helped to send me to avoid millions of dollars in taxes in the Nineteen nineties the paper alleges that the president used dubious tax schemes to hide much of the fortune given to him and his siblings by their parents
The lawyer for Mr Trump said the allegations fulfills they'd Busta is one of the journalists involved in the report
Was absolutely nothing for their kids are now Donald Trump issue for show there should be taxed if
President Trump has mocked the testimony of Christine lousy food who has accused the Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh of sexual assault and they were teenagers at a campaign rally in Mississippi the president mimic to around ... at a Senate Judiciary committee hearing last week repeatedly saying
I don't know I don't know
It runs foreign minister ... says his country is willing to hold talks with the U.S bumps has expressed concern about the reliability of President Trump as a negotiating partner Mr Zarif made the comments to the BBC
Off to the U.N Security council members vowed to continue with the Iran nuclear deal he spent to lease to set
Is impossible sent Mr sorry the door is closed down talks with President Trump but for now Iran isn't accepting his offer to hold a summit like the north Korean leader did
In a photo opportunity and a two page document knocked the one hundred and fifty pages in the deal President Trump pulled out of Iran is hoping other world powers will see the accord which promised ear on economic benefits in exchange for curbs on its nuclear program
This is the world news from the BBC
One of China's biggest films to assist in order to pay nearly one hundred and thirty million dollars in fines and unpaid taxes three months off to she was last seen in public
According to state run media found being being with a void jail if the money's paid the investigation into the financial affairs of the actress has led to a wider probe into entertainment industry contacts in China
Police in from say a notorious gangster who broke out of jail using a hijacked telescope has been recaptured after three months from the rum
Read one fired from his most wanted criminals was detained in the northern region of trade with three other men including his brother police said weapons were seized if I'd had been serving a twenty five years in jail sentence for armed robbery
The French President Emmanuel Macron has accepted the resignation of is interior ministers Iraq alone twenty four hours after rejecting the move was to kill them set on Tuesday that he intended to step down despite the president's wishes he loves to run for election as ... in the city of deal with this report Jessica McCalla
Mystical those I think nation which follows that's at the environment and sports ministers deals a fresh blow to Mr Michael whose approval ratings have been languishing it a little more than that ... percent
One of us and not cause or their supporters for the presidency jak cologne had been serving as mayor of Neal when the menu at my call made him interior minister but it's still that relations between the two men salad this summer and the scandal surrounding one of the president's bodyguards
Attorney ... was due to have touched down on an asteroid three hundred million kilometers from us within the past few hours
The mascot trough successfully separated from its mother ship before beginning to descend early on Wednesday morning the Roebuck which is part of a French and German collaboration
As we approach three am from Boston University you're listening to nine point nine W. B. U. R. FM Boston home of Boston's largest radio news from Ninety two points of WB you wait just break even point one WVU wage Brewster and streaming W. B. U. R. dot org W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR Newsday
[noise] hello and welcome to Newsday from the b._b._c. World Service with me Lawrence put on good to have you with us [noise]
That are coming up on the program the latest on the ground from Indonesia of this you know what I mean the earthquake many thousands of still without homes food will ... will get it from our correspondent who's been speaking to
Under dubious tax practices that's what's behind the ... we hear more about their investigation whether the White House describes as one hundred percent faults and whatever special recall from China despite the current trade war with the U.S the message about the country's ... welded confidence actually
Find that it's a positive force of the world and I think
Us need to understand that the world is on the ...
The way the business analyst full revolt messy state you is the lead story [noise]

This is the b._b._c. news hello I'm Jonathan eyes on
Your searches in Indonesia say bought supplies of urgently needed food and water have begun to reach people in the Indonesian island of sort of way see five days after it was struck by a devastating earthquake and tsunami
At least Seventeen hundred people on then to have died seven cargo planes landed the Hollywood Reporter on Wednesday morning the BBC's how Griffiths says in the island's main city my costs are
A few
Days there hasn't been maybe ultimately when was the head of being said we don't know if they probably think flow from truck closer to know what I mean I Love the jets and also right across Africa has
To take medicines they've never met for such a rescue team [noise] but it's all reaching kind of free food and I would probably say
Second guessing
The White House has dismissed as misleading claims by the New York times that Donald Trump helped his family to avoid millions of dollars in tax in the Nineteen nineties the papers allege that the president used dubious tax schemes and fraud to hide much the fortune given to him and his siblings by that parents
A lawyer from Trump described the allegations as folks tax officials in the state New York said they'll vigorously pursuing all avenues of investigation
Iran's foreign minister jobs every says his country is willing to hold talks with the U.S but how's expressed concern about the reliability of President Trump as a negotiating partner in a BBC interview Mr Zarif rejected the idea of a summit like the one held by Mr Trump with North Korea's leader Kim Jong on
He said that with any result in a way to opportunity in stark contrast to the comprehensive nuclear deal from which the U.S withdrew and the others yeah
You know what's happened in the United states from President Trump came to office was not to the ocean there was simply a change of administration and the nuclear ... is not a ... it's an international agreement
United Nation's highest court is due to rule short on Iran's appealed to suspend the sanctions put in place by President Trump
He pulled us out of the nuclear deal with Iran and Holly good reports from the Hague
To Iran accused Washington strangling its economy unforeseen rainy and citizens to ensure economic suffering
Washington I get the C. J. hadn't new restrictions to ruin the case of the concerns of match with national security Iran Bruce little suit under a friendship she signed in Nineteen fifty five before the Islamic Revolution
And to the twenty fifth India had run agreed to limit its nuclear program and get access to international inspectors in return for an end to western sanctions
And all the good reporting from the Hague you're listening to that I just will use from the BBC
One of China's biggest film stuff has been ordered to pay nearly one hundred and thirty million dollars in fines and unpaid taxes three months off she was last seen in public the investigation into the financial size of the actress ... has led to a wider probe into entertainment industry contracts in China Robin brunch reports
From being being is joined his best known female acting stone yet she disappeared from view in June
Of two weeks of what was almost certainly secret detention she's now being told to pay the equivalent of around one hundred and Seventy million dollars in back taxes and finds state media say she used to companies and misleading contracts to under report have filled earnings
It's reported that the actress who's appeared in the X. men movie would be sent to prison if she pays up
From say an editorial gangster who broke out of jail using a hijacked helicopter has been recaptured after three months on the run at one ... one of France's most wanted criminals was detained in the northern region of crazy with three other men police said weapons were seized by eat was serving a twenty five year jail sentence armed robbery
When he was helped to escape and July
Five years ago he staged a breakout using explosives
For the first time in its history the u._k. is most senior court will have a majority of female judges when it has a case in London today it's the first time in six hundred years of the country's highest court has had a mainly female bench ... the Supreme Court itself was set up less than a decade ago three of Britain's twelve Supreme Court challenges
Robot was due to have touched down on an asteroid three hundred million kilometers from us within the past two hours the mascot cross successfully separated from its mother ship this will begin to descend on the on Wednesday morning
The robot which is most of the French and German collaboration is about the size of a shoe box and we'll lose around the redo asteroid my hoping
Message it's successful he landed to other small robots you do in September that's the b._b._c. news [noise]
Actually like just let's just Newsday with James and learns to Indonesia in just a moment then we hear allegations strenuously denied about Donald Trump's tax practices that are flying Tom from the Netherlands and an floating cause all the stock market Esteban seems like the
We didn't know where that story the difficulty ... rescue workers in Indonesia totally friday's earthquake and tsunami we now know that around the teen hundred and fifty people died and that is expected to rise many areas are still inaccessible because of landslides there's growing desperation in places where people to shoot the food and moved to
The show while ago I spoke to ... seats ... in ... when the ... and just to to see where he'd be making some of the civil rights as many of them and the worst affected town has [noise]
Yeah they've been lifted I buy some of the ... and a half full ... these checks the delivery day it's a positive and they came in and got onto that got to be taken from his office in speaking to some of the survivors say
Stories at old compelling as you would expect heartbreaking in some cases
Who's clutching a picture of a two year old girl who don't being seen since Friday and they told us that she was too young to even
Speak explained to stop the only would see new mom and dad
And they were desperate for news of her so they're a wrench profits not trying to help people who are missing family members but tragically
The theories that many in Hollywood I may well be very
Quite a bit of concern about what many see as the slow pace of the relief assets even the un saying something surprising that it's taking so long to get to some of the affected area [noise]
Yeah ... is a country tragically familiar with natural disasters and you need
That are supposed to be maybe optimal they went to swell prepared to they could have been said we've witnessed aid supplies being slow from here truckloads of aids cutting funding and it's a non being floated homeless at least jets and also Red Cross um African
To take medicine and medical staff and search and rescue team but it's old reaching kind of free food and I was even five days
Underneath that is just incredibly large we know
Toll is written about sixteen hundred
Not just in the average they'd be unable to check the funding
Teams are struggling to get to and that's where the need to know great just maybe nothing says he suggests Lou old
A ten dollar a bit further afield motel
Is there any realistic hope at this point to still finding people alive [noise]
People get attached to that idea that may be miraculously things all
The people could be taken from the rubble and and the president had
People do do is actually visiting the region at the moment he has promised
The more heavy machinery is not where I think in order to lift rubble
The people who attracts while we have an official days for full function totally from beneath rubble those whole
Brand like the the existing they'd be eleven because it was the new violence age and it's called the new DDS as well so we can ... which is an SUV and this would you believe in it which is an SUV and that that is that is right so I think going forward they're investing in extra capacity
And I think as long as the luxury ... holds up fairly well then I think I think the the outlook looks fairly positive I think it's important to look past
The share price action when for all reflected on the stock exchange in New York and see thousands Fifteen the share price dropped forty percent in the first six months
It is now a hundred and thirty percent above it so I pay a price so um we might get a little bit of a setting early on but ultimately I think it's really a question of whether or not invested believe in the long term business model
For thank you Michael Michael ... from the emcee market some Lawrence will do is that if he can to help them out okay
Matchbooks is one old enough to read the match hoaxes that's the closest I've ever get to last month's it'll be about three inches long a and a lovely little muddled I'm Rob young man he thinks and lead on flushing ... coming up in just a moment of quiet other look it up on a sort of a jar of ... up but now we get our world affairs editor jumps Simpson musing on well I suppose the big ...
Should the west and the rest of the world be more assertive China on the world stage in the background of course the tensions between the U.S and China a possible trade war between the two largest economies in the world
Accusations of China acting on Saturday in global trade are also miniaturized in recent adults in the south China Sea which is worrying regional neighbors so John Simpson who's been reporting from China so if he is returns to consider these concerns
[noise]
I'm struggling up a steep incline no longer stretch of the great wall of China which is usually
Plays public right oh that's just the
Front of me on the wall is a distinct be unusual sight fashion shoots the photographer is what she was the model is Ukrainian but it's the dress the real center of attention on that very definitely Chinese
China is open to the world nowadays but increasing its own China's own to [noise]
Today everything in this country is about outreach with watching of cost us ... the constructive outside ... do in Sichuan Province
Paws extraordinarily ambitious program called the belt and road initiative which will spreads Chinese
Goods and influence right across the world but there was a ... and you know not just those ... like a logistics manager is a small cog in this boss project hearing ... due
To the office of watching the face and they just don't feel extremely excited and I feel the weight of responsibility on my shoulders

Level so
This is the headquarters of buying do China's equivalent to Google and like Google might do is starting to make driverless vehicles are
They let me go on border test box never before shown to the press [noise]
I'm sitting in the future is gonna be the boss seats for me four or five people say is another driver I have to say it can be [noise]
When I speak to buy dues preserve the giants ching
He was insistent
That China wasn't any kind of threat to the west of
China as they ponder it is a positive force of the world and I think that us need to understand that the world needs to understand
For companies like why do we are equal upon or we Chris Wray thrive in China but also we'd like to be a global player [noise]
Are you truly want to call me sign
Spots China is an awful lot more sensitive nowadays [noise] this is a hugely popular feature film ... Chinese forces rescuing than nationals abroad [noise]
People here like the idea that China's standing up for itself after centuries of being dominated by the outside
Upset me here in Tiananmen Square
Last beautiful
And extraordinarily M. t.s space right the hearts of Chinese power [noise]
Just said with that as I stand here is the great hall of the people of the year ago Xi Jinping China's leader for life he wants to be made this announcement that committed China depict coming a world leader in innovation in influence
And in military taught
What he did that was that it was said becoming a lot more authoritarian were during ...
Until president she became leader China was definite you're getting more liberal he stuck to that his critics sidelined jailed or simply disappear
But I did manage to me talk to the leading dissident to lead dot com a gym is too recent erosion ... less a strong make critical of president Xi
He's constantly mothers to them followed but we've come to a cafe in northeastern Beijing of taken over ... sets aside a mob Jong players so we can talk private than
Most ...
Currently under Xi Jinping power is becoming more and more concentrated to country will be more a territory that will be more stumping the rule of law the outlook is completely pessimistic why does have a big one the one big one
Strong words for the west the trouble is that China has such different value was it just the easy to cooperate with the country which demands to drill submission to the state so we'll see official lie
Most of the government for an interview but that wasn't forthcoming so I've come to a think tank very closely linked to the government to pull the China Institute of International Studies to see Mr Joshua ... who's a senior research fellow here at a former diplomat
Nobody showed a rock the boat but not Chinatown patient you know the challenge uh do you have stairs or ... even you know it's a challenge the exist in international order wagging the same boat which showed a role in the same direction that is what's your corporate we had a
Job shoot them in the report on jumped Simpson [noise]

Now did you know flying car industry is getting off the ground
To manufacturers say they will deliver ... vehicles by next year when he's in the U.S the other in the Netherlands not ... ... pounds e ... taking orders for liberty model three will call which essentially trends food into some things like heading up to
... I spent some ... and Bush from penalty
Actually said general culture show which she hears a sweet little car which is a fully operational car drives the other sixty kilometers I can drive wipe out all the way they do in two minutes week off from a car to what we call it ... cups
And not then flies how high how far
Oh well it can fly over four five Latino leaders with one hundred leader tank it's normal euro Ninety five so it's ... words flies all and we can go as high as a treat thousand five from the meat is it necessary
And is it the Sosa thing that I'm going to be able to talk next to my house next to the other five feet of sea wealthy vehicles expensive vehicles and a half outside
Well yeah well and it it will suits in between your expensive cars ... completely new way of mobility recall treat you mobility
Your for your racial started you'll get right show at your house and why or why you know there's the nation and normally what you'll fly you need to treat vehicles ... you go to your destination so that makes it a lot of a lot of that
You can and should be a pilot to do its own unique on just take an old re driver and get into one of these
No that's true I mean that safety is one of the most important which of course when you talk about like what you need is what we call it the the L Prize by like ... states you're around thirty five hours of flying and then you can get your PPO get fly all over Europe usa
... Asian market London bus from how they need something like two hundred thousand years that maybe four hundred thousand dollars so or maybe not quite diseases that he's safely Jang sung or

Distribution of the BBC real service made possible with support from home advisor matching homeowners were home improvement professionals for a variety of projects for repairs to remodel homeowners can read reviews and book appointments online at home advisor dot com and corona is offering cloud
Based workforce management solutions designed to help organizations all types of SARS is reduced labor cost improved workforce productivity and minimize compliance risk criminals dot com workforce innovation networks
From Boston University does is Ninety point nine W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR News station will live streaming WVU our dog ward [noise]
Who are FM Boston whom of Boston's largest radio news rooms do points on WB you wait just very eight or nine point one WVU age Brewster and streaming WVU our dog or W. B. U. bar Boston's NPR News station
Hair on the BBC well service to the news it's hard to talk with me they ...
Him hadn't that was known as one of Asia's strong men have stated Mondays here say the economic crises and managed to transform the country into one of the confidence successful manufacturing powers he
Stepped down into thousands of the three often more than Twenty years in office but now at Ninety three he's back in power
I think my last stint as by me this or did not resolved and people condemning me for not developing a fence the they call the ... and ... you know I've been asked to do something I Would say
When when you stop two years and ... and why if ...
If that is one of the nation once out stuff but I made a promise I Will stick by my problem is
Two years and then you step down at Ninety five yes that smell laziest prime minister ... ... on how to walk off to the news
This is the b._b._c. news hello I'm Jonathan eyes on
The Indonesian president ... widowed or has made his second visit to parts of the island of ... that were hit by a devastating earthquake and tsunami he said that returning to the disaster zone hit observed that efforts to help survivors were gathering pace and that he wants to see people return to their daily activities
Seven cargo planes landed in politics on Wednesday morning the BBC's Johnson had is that
There are very very long road journeys into this town it's very isolated it takes them a long time they've been worried about losing as well any police escorts
To get them in the ... leaders on the ground here is some kind of system for distributing it it's still not clear how they would do that people are very desperate and he ... that comes in on his own is likely to be swamped we're beginning to see some signs of organizations in government buildings where it was whether a displaced people but where the beginning to prepare
Or the possibilities of a distribution but it's it's very early days yet he's going to take them I think several more days before there's something systematic that many of the earthquake victims will actually feel helps them
China has ordered one of its biggest film stars to pay nearly one hundred and thirty million dollars in fines and unpaid taxes three months off as she disappeared there's been intense speculation about the whereabouts of ... one of the few Chinese actors to break into Hollywood Robyn brown reports
From being being is trying his best known female acting stone yet she disappeared from view in June
Of two weeks of what was almost certainly secret detention she's now being told to pay the equivalent of around one hundred and Seventy million dollars in back taxes and finds state media say she used to companies and misleading contracts to under report film earnings
It's reported ... the actress who's appeared in the X. men movie would be sent to prison if she pays off the United nation's highest court is due to rule
Shortly on Iran's appeal to suspend the sanctions put in place by President Trump after he pulled us out of the nuclear deal with Iran Iran has argued that the international court of justice these latest us sanctions are causing suffering the Iranian people from the Hague has I don't know how they're going
To run Bruce it's a little suit under friendship she she signed in Nineteen fifty five before the Islamic Revolution under the twenty Fifteen deal Iran agreed to limit its nuclear program and give access to international inspectors in return for an end to western sanctions
It's nice being the UN's highest scores CJ has new powers enforcements some of the previous rulings have been ignored like those countries
Iran's foreign minister ... says his country is willing to hold talks with the U.S but has expressed concern about the reliability of President Trump as a negotiating partner in a BBC interview Mr Zarif rejected the idea of a summit like the one held by Mr Trump with North Korea's leader Kim Jong on
He said that would result in a photo opportunity this is the world news from the BBC policing from say a notorious gangster who broke out of jail using your hijacked helicopter has been recaptured after three months on the wrong
Road once I eat one of France's most wanted criminals was detained in the northern region of cry if I was serving a twenty five years in jail sentence armed robbery when he was helped to escape in July
For the first time in its history the u._k. is most senior code for the majority of female judges when it has a case in London today five Komen has more details
Monday lady out and was sworn in as the Supreme Court third female justice alongside is president Baroness hail and lady black
Today will free will sit in the case with two male justices giving the court it's served as a female majority the law it's often said takes its time and it's taking the highest court in the line six hundred years
One around fifty percent of the populations female just twenty nine percent of court judges are women
Farmers in India who staged a mass march to the capital Delhi say they've ended that protest because the government has accepted many of the moms on Tuesday tens of thousands of farmers clashed with police who's dumps him from entering deli but every night several thousand farmers were allowed to proceed they say the government has now agreed to increase crop prices
About India's population relies on farming but many say they're vulnerable and struggle to survive
A tiny robots has landed on an asteroid as it pursues a mission to find clues to the origin of the solar system the mascot Croft loans from a Japanese probe landed safely on the review the asteroid and make contact with its team
The bones part of the French and German collaboration is about the size of a shoe box and move around ... hoping with a battery life of junk Fifteen hours analyze the composition of the surface of ... some polls will be returned to us in
Two years' time BBC News
Knowing the b._b._c. world surface hard talk and some people may find the opinions expressed towards the end of the program offensive
Welcome to talk on the BBC well service with means they not but there are we might guess today is the oldest headed governments in the wild laziest prime minister Maliki to in my hand that he came back to office in may offer a shock election victory against his other than the former ruling coalition
That country has been mired in allegations of corruption sweating around the previous government which has dentist confidence at home and abroad
First time round my dad was prime minister for more than twenty consecutive years until two thousand and three can he leave his own checkered past behind and leave me lazier too a brighter future
Prime minister ... welcome to how to cook thank you extraordinary returned to power in may for you after Fifteen Years of retirement what made you want to return to government
As people came to me three couldn't leave groups of people asking me to do something about the government which are they're found not the the kind of usual government is very blessed if he's very caught up
So you've got the um big corruption case against the former prime minister Najib rest sock 'em in connection with one and the pain which is the state's offering found six hundred and eighty million dollars missing on
He says he was given that by the Saudi royal family and that he's done nothing wrong when there was a case against him when he was prime minister he was cleared of all charges you seem to think he's already guilty
I ... that he says cue that
He got to the sea from Saudi but nobody ever gives that amount of money to anybody how'd you know in the history of the woods how'd you like well I have never read of anybody getting that kind of money
Have you on the Saudis whether they did or not
Well ah this how do you see if they have given him a money when you move these are the behind the documents ... the money was in the bank and then the band or send the money over and how did they get into money in the first place
Says his property is I'm a property is connected to him have open rated and twenty eight point six million dollars in cash was found for hundreds in such a designer handbags belonging to his wife and you said it is obvious that he has stolen money shouldn't really evil next to the courts
Well in the first place a medic as a department of justice ... mid ... months that the money was stolen from one MTV they wouldn't have made that statement unless they have proof really prove that he was still in money
But it doesn't necessarily mean that the former five minutes and that he resign stone anyway I mean should you not allow the cold weather to have enough ...
To put him before the new Josh him and he's up through the courts to decide whether our everyday lives these great or he's denial is guy
All right but he has denied this just make sure that that you know that I mean
What what are the four hundred and thirty designer handbags I mean you'll you'll finance minister lingo on ... says realistically the hopes of recovering thirty percent of the money misappropriated that's when you can hope for you're not going to go very far but I Try and say we're going to find their economy with the postings of four hundred and Seventy designer handbags sell you
Know we're not talking about that and make the loan we're talking about lost so many billions of dollars which has been stolen and is known nowhere to be a phone
You know didn't lose the right things about what the other didn't didn't lose right they don't do any investigation we have a militia the eyes it by the previous government has a night that would roll
A richer allows him to defend people even without declaring a state of emergency so these are the two facts
On the international has recently a future if you if your government is one hundred days in office and they made it reported for example
And the laziest retrograde affirmative action which gives all science ... benefits and the advantages to the Malay ethnic Malay people in your country or about such achievement in people's sixty percent of them all ethnic Malaysia also suffered volunteers housing um job and and so on and so forth
While I went to stop this affirmative
Way should as so the thing is we're trying to correct that the
Disparity in Wales between the police and the others we have to bring up the lists whereas to be as as reality or Israel off as the others that needs correction because if you're allowed to discredit the to
Go by itself it becomes ... getting bigger and then there will be tension and the fence but he there will be even fighting in the country
It's creating tensions now with the other ethnicities
They didn't really have what I mean you look at the brain drain ethnic Chinese Malay you know they've lasted about two thirds of on Mondays there's one million strong diaspora uh heightened scaled migrants money is an ethnic Chinese that function with that feet
You know because they find that the joke sales where they're welcome to go but many of them are very loyal to him last year last yesterday I had lunch or read them and they all all waving listen blacks although there have been part of the diaspora of missions in other countries
So I mean aren't ... your ...
Um ... for example the Chinese don't me nature democratic action policy is positive you uncover election but you can categorically said that affirmative action in favor of the ethnic Malay senior say needed is not going to result in discrimination against ... all the ethnic communities
Where there's been no discrimination because if you go to college if you will find that this real quota or victims of this a policy on the richest people in the ... in in Bolivia
Right so you talk about the richest people in my life that Congress innovative about state very high level of debt fifty four percent of GDP but a huge funding gap you can't do the things that you want to do trying to remove international investors and so on
But one very eye catching policy is made if the caring for twenty three billion dollars worth of infrastructure projects backed by China angel says Singapore and and this this cause you know some concern amongst international investors that you've done this
Here for ... to ... equal as that colonialism on the policy of the Chinese are you worried about the Chinese thing and
Letting the accuse the Chinese I merely said that there are other forms of ... and one of them was a Neal current news we trust going by places in Chicago that's what I said
Are you worried about the Chinese though when you say new form of colonialism is that your points
In the desert coming there still wants to invest in Malaysia they've seen me many of them are in me even recently and they don't seem to be a ... ... angry with me because of what I see the getting ...
But do you see them as bringing your bouncing you form of colonialism with the woman belt one road no strong little projects
Around others are one by one road is okay but you see
The some people had to lend big pieces of land to the Chinese read they are going to be a city which is very very luxurious men for that people to come and live there seven hundred thousand of them that is not for the indirect investment
Foreign direct investment is above bringing money being ... setting up runs in Bolivia and probably listen that we said when
You don't want Chinese people coming to settle in Malaysia
Known and all kinds of the ones other people to come online is due to their country and several that it was happening in Europe now telling all this seems to go away
Is it because you don't want ethnic Chinese living in ...
You wouldn't even these Sudanese are welcome but [laughter] but you come by the media and sort of you know in three
You've also referred to the south China sings and your recent United Nations speech and of course we've got a big dispute between China and some of its Asian neighbors lazier the Philippines and so on are you worried that China is flexing its muscles that
I mean that China China has every right to go wherever they want to go but at least during a check on sheep and will prevent sheep some passing through the streets of ... and the cells Tennessee that's all we won
And could you see this escalating we're leaving me escalate if people begin to if he didn't provoke China
Which usually one of those that might prevent China was somewhat deal was compatible
But he stopped huh favorite that the United states he's thinking oh you mean
You can guess I didn't have to mention the word I'm not
Saying that could be a consideration military one between the United states and China over the south China Sea
All along he has not to have better all shapes and wall sheep in the south China Sea because he was such a
... wall a Washington there they will be tension there will be conflict and they made these on there that will
Okay and you'll un speech you also talked about the worst thing to the Palestinians as you described it and why so many would agree with you on that particular that statement they wouldn't agree with your own stone on June ... in the wild
And the lady pass for instance just described you as a proud and to see lights on what can't accept that that you are on the line
There are many races in this world I sit nasty things about them they never kissed me all be in the the us and then through that but the Israelis a special you cannot even mentioned that in the whole of course
... six six million but for me than who are victims of the articles
That is and the and the Senate and
While at All right well let me tell you about what you said as conference and twenty ten according to a report from the British press even on this is what you said about the gym and it's even after that and by the Nazis she said five to be a source of even greater problems
To the wild in Nineteen Seventy in your book the Malay Thailand like you said the Jews and not mainly hook nosed but on the stand mommy instinctively
These kinds of things and except for law in a prime minister
Has lots of people that say ... things up a U.S ... lazy and all kinds of the ... I didn't take it up against them that this an opium and I get my opinion of things
Do you stand by that the folks that opinion or
If you are going to be through for the problem in the middle east began with ... through all the rules but I cannot see that way that you cannot this or why
Say hook nosed and good with money is not the Iranians who knows [laughter] while I'm sure that many people would rarely find I find it offensive
Many people called them believe that new ... we did not object we didn't look the wall for that
Price okay on the coming to the end of this in Japan at Ninety three and I hadn't met with all respect you have the energy and efficient to take my legacy afford an accomplished their reforms that's a needed to set the country on any profit prosperity
I die I Will try and I think that last stint as by me this or did not resolved and people condemning me for not developing that Fenty they don't call the ... and the Asian Tiger during my last day no I've been asked to do something I Will say
When when you stop to yes and handed over to unwind Brian
Yeah his name was ... if that is one of the nation once out stumped by I made a promise I Will stick by my problem is
Two years and then you step down Ninety five yes premise and I say my ... thank you very much for coming on ... you might see them
[noise] distribution of the b._b._c. world sort of somebody who else is made possible by the American public media producer and distributor of award winning public radio contact a pie and American public media with support from for X. dot com empowering traders to seize opportunities and currency markets since Nineteen Ninety nine
For X. dot com which your World Trade it for its trading involves significant risk triple [noise]

From Boston University this is not the point nine W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR News station with the latest news and analysis I W. B. U. R. dot org [noise]
Good morning Mrs ... in the forecast a chance of showers this morning otherwise mostly cloudy skies today was higher than the upper sixties partly cloudy tonight with Lowes in the mid fifties
A crowd of people lined up outside of Paris very poor people
With little paper their prescription medicines receipt for X ray and other medical procedures their gas and electricity bills you know there was actually just knowing that there was an election coming up and there was kind of an exchange that went on where he took care of
These financial problems they had to pay their bills with the kind of implicit
Promise that they would support in in the election and this is a time where the biggest employers the mayor's office you is actually a rival to the counseling and that I was with and you know across town the mayor's office with distributing these basket
So people are buying well politicians local politicians are effectively buying votes I guess because they control the mayor's office and in Brazil controlling the mayor's office gives you access to a large amount of money
I think they said what's going on and actually outright the buying as well the going rate was around a hundred hey ice or twenty five dollars and then what happens is the mayor of this town basically
In this town to vote for the politicians that
He's in a coalition with an in this case it's a prominent senator and a congressman and depends on them to be able to get federal money to do projects and give these kinds of hand out and then higher
They depend on all of these small scale mayors to get the votes that are needed to keep to re electing that a lot of them have half a dozen corruption cases
Yes and of course nowhere to be in the world has made corruption cases it seems well has done over the last five or six years of in Brazil has one of the national political level the anti corruption agenda has defined a large part of this national election that hasn't it
Has indeed and whoever is elected president is going to have a really tough time getting rid of corruption because there's a whole system that green that and that starts in these little towns and then worked its way up and I think you need to
Understand about Brazil is Brazil has massive electoral districts so everyone and helicopters are voting for the same legislators and in this case there's four hundred and forty different candidates that they're going to have to choose between for various position
And that kind of huge array of candidates combined with thirty five political parties means that elections are really expensive so there's a need for money in some cases from legitimate places and in other cases as the corruption investigations have shown over the past few years it comes from outright graft
It seems almost impossible to beat anyone and to keep yourself playing
Some of the politicians who have and a raft and nice corruption scandals say the system itself that require that
Think that's a bit of a cop out there have been movements to make elections cheaper
To reduce the number of parties and huge should ban corporate donations but what's really difficult to all of these reforms one that just I think Congress they encounter massive resistance from the politicians because of course they quite like this and that kept them in power for so many years
And it's really hard for a reform minded congressman or president as I think we'll see when the election is over to really change the way that
Politics work and the role of money in politics and Brazil
Sarah messing up the economist magazine so we'll be election change and I think the success of the official carwash will love ... investigation was thrown open the extent of the corruption problem
A federal judge this week released testimony alleging that the former left when president Lula da Silva off the millions to be siphoned off the state oil company ...
To support his successes election campaign and I was a ... Bill Murray Rousseff Petra boss
Is already had to pay a staggering seven billion dollars in fines for his role in corruption all of this is feeding into the surge in support for the current electoral front runner in Brazil the far right candidate Joe you both for NATO [noise]

Found his impassioned supporters new political figure on the scene both in our was seen as a strongman of populist his popularity let me reasons and a failed assassination attempt last month and as for corruption wellbeing a congressional newcomer he can claim to be on tainted by the like the scandals
But his anti gay anti abortion and some say racist rhetoric has prompted equal outrage and support for his opponents especially the workers' party candidate for men to her dad [noise]

The trouble to Azad faces is that the Workers Party has its own record to defend fourteen of the last sixteen years spent in power during which the country has descended
Into his worst of a recession and corruption is seen to become rife ... salaries the leader of her dad's ... Tea Party in the northern by your state
I'm not saying we haven't made any mistakes but we're not responsible for corruption in Brazil ... cheese are corrupt mafia doesn't stand up with us it was only orchestrated by the media to kick us out of power politics in Brazil until twenty sixteen
Was fine and by companies and that meant hockey's without any hypocrisy had accounts to funnel money into that can pay you for this was a mistake
And to the tea also took part in that game with the so the only rule
Mostly the electorate is more divided than ever these days ... is a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for international economics in Washington she says no one candidate is lucky to win a write in Sunday's poll the collapse of the middle ground she reckons means that making loans home in rows
Could fold
The fear I think here is that because the elections have polarized around these two figures
So had died on the one hand he's from the P. T. the workers' party the workers' party is currently all former president Lula is currently in jail
There are many members who are under investigation not had that as much but the president of the Workers Party is under investigation and a number of other people
And on the far right the candidate that actually represents the far right now you're both so now he comes from a very
Small party basically exist in order for him to be a candidate he
Speaking in very nostalgic terms when he talks about the military dictatorship in Brazil that lasted from sixty four until Nineteen eighty five as being a time when the country was
More or less orderly which is not true having been a time when corruption was tampered down which is also on true
This candidate because he has not been directly implicated in anything related to the big corruption scandal in the car wash operation
He's also been playing up the card that he's a clean politician and that he's the anti P. T. he's the anti workers' party and that has resonated with a lot of people who have become repulsed by the workers' party because of everything that's happened in the last few years
When it gets you know we do have commons than we've from those representing the anti corruption drive saying no matter what the politicians say they're not going to derail the judicial efforts to clean up politics is too much of a gross roots groundswell there'll be too much of an outcry from
Ordinary working people if whoever it is he won the election was to try to derail what's going on
They're starting to be a level of
Foot teach in a way with the sheer amount of corruption that this investigation has uncovered there are parts of the judiciary and Brazil that have become very politicized because the corruption operation the lives that operation
Has uncovered so many different ties to so many different politicians
Some of which do have links or connections to some members of the judiciary so anyone who tries to stop ... very visibly or attempts to do anything to stop the operation from continuing would probably encounter severe backlash from the population
So what's your expectation I mean taking your personal view do you you an optimist that do business in the world of bulletins can be separate to the corruption tend to some extent we cleaned up and in the media and
You never get rid of corruption completely but I Do think that over our looking out to the medium term there will probably be less corruption in pretty do that's potentially a positive development
As you probably know there was over the weekend a very large women's march on Saturday to protest
... the next day there was another very large march across the country
Pro both sent out a so protesting the P. T. so this is the mood that's in the country right now and what worries me and what I find disturbing is that whichever of these candidates ends up winning the country is still going to be in substantial social and political and institutional turmoil
So we're asking you right now when you can do all your dollars to do it at one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven and of course giving right now also you're also put your name and I had
To win one of two brand new twenty Nineteen superheroes provided by city Subaru of ah Belmont either the cross track or the outback it's your choice someone's going to win it could be you if you give and put your name and the drawing
Eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven is the number to call to get in on the match get in on the chance to win your choice of twenty Nineteen Subaru sim city sides to ruin Belmont eight hundred nine zero nine nine to
Eight seven four W. B. U. R. dot org match money though now is going to run out very soon so before you miss out give us a call go on line [noise] protect independent journalism get your money to work twice as hard to keep this radio stations strong and independent for you
One eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven is the number to call right now for that dollar for dollar match today the only day that we've got this terrific opportunity and you get in on the stakes for ... as well so eight hundred nine zero nine Ninety ... evidence thanks [noise]
WVU our supporters and food Geico protecting people and their vehicles for over Seventy five years [noise] guy goes to offer car insurance more to Massachusetts drivers to visual information that Geico dot com for what he'd hungry for seven out of that one eight hundred dollars for seven eight feet
Boston University or listening to the point nine WVU are FM Boston home of Boston's largest radio news from Ninety two point seven ... eighty nine point one WVU wage Brewster and streaming at W. B. U. R. dot org you'll be you are all students NPR News
News with the ... the United states has condemned on international court of justice ruling against the sanctions regime that President Trump has imposed on Iran Iran says the court's ruling showed that the embargo was illegal on hold and reports from the Hague
The judge's order cool for the partial easing of punitive measures specifically the country should be allowed to trade with Iran in goods and services insofar as they relate to humanitarian needs medicines medical supplies and equipment food agricultural products and aviation safety equipment
This is a provisional measure issued in response to runs urgent request head of the second round of sanctions scheduled to be reinstated
The United states next month the icy chase order is binding and cannot be appeals court has no power to enforce it
The Indonesian authorities are struggling to get aid to some of the areas affected by last week's devastating earthquake and tsunami which killed at least fourteen hundred people president joker widowed sent that equipment and supplies where things over the moon was needed Rebecca Hinch good as New York pa new
... excavated I thinking through mounds of nod to try and clear of road into the community here when the earthquake hit the ground here people say status to shake and my
Status to cover their houses and they started thinking a whole community is now and that they might many forties may never be ...
South Africa finance minister and fund fund any has told an inquiry into high level of corruption
That he was fired by Jacob Zuma for refusing to sign off and do that would have benefited the group to family and the other sense associates a performer president the group to family and consumer denied any wrongdoing
Noam ... from Johannesburg
It's always been widely believed that in ... in his refusal to sign off on a mess of nuclear expansion deal cost him his job he is testifying in an investigation into the three Indian born ... brothers
Who build a business empire in South Africa during Jacob Zuma has nine year tenure as president
... who was X. from his position in December twenty Fifteen was replaced by a largely unknown LOL may cut does one boy and and that ... plunged the ran into a tailspin
The government and Bangladesh has abolished ... civil service jobs which reserved thousands of pose for specific groups the move comes after months of protests by students and job seekers who demanded reform world news from the BBC
The upper house of the Russian parliament is overwhelmingly passed a law raising the pension age by five years a measure that sparked protests and hit the president for the bloody may ... approval rating he's expected to approve the new legislation next week
The British prime minister Theresa May said she's not afraid to Britain leaving the European Union was new deal and Brexit despite warnings about the economic damage it would cause
Addressing the annual conference of the conservative party Mrs may insisted that the u._k. future after Brexit once for the promise and its best days were ahead the BBC's ... Mrs may code for practical approach to Brett sent
To her friends with in this kind of way if I got to be able to fill up our breath for Joe how are you for having me if I
Have some work for average people are paying
For the ... [noise]
Yes we could leave for real but that would be awfully files are always so full amongst also leave for all of a general election a second referendum maybe wouldn't have gotten ... for for for
The world bank says it's deeply concerned about the new law in Tanzania which means anyone questioning the government's official statistics faces a fine and at least three years in prison the world bank suggests alone is implemented could undermine the country's development
Punishment recently approved a law which opposition groups see as part of a wider government crackdown on dissent
The Nobel Prize the chemistry has been awarded jointly to three scientists from the United states and Britain
Friends is Arnold is just the first woman to be awarded the owner and is receiving Hoff if the price the trio won the Nobel Prize for developing proteins that are used to make everything from biofuels to medical treatment ... BBC News
Funded by you our listeners and by existing conditions surveys ink three D. laser scanning reality capture to de drawings in three D. been for the building industry
Cambridge trust providing financial advice tailored to the needs of business owners and innovative companies more at Cambridge trust dot com private banking wealth management
And the BSO guest conductor ... opens the season with works by Tchaikovsky ... October eleventh the thirteenth tickets at BSO dot org
And this is not depart nine dollars you'd be you are ... Clayton here asking you to consider
That today's the next to the last day of the w._b. you are full fundraiser it's closing out tomorrow as we promised it would between now and then
We still need to raise about four hundred sixty thousand dollars we need your help to do it now and knowing that a group of generous listeners are offering for a little while yet this morning
To double every ... encouraging them to eat a courage in Utah pledge right now by saying that will make your money go that much further for all the news you listen to including the b._b._c. here on WB you are so take advantage of it before the match money runs out the number to call is one eight hundred
Nine zero nine nine to age seven or of course you can pledge adult will you be ... or a lot of people are doing
Just that stepping up and doing their part to protect independent journalism here on WB you are thank you if you have already done your part but if you haven't and if you would like your dollars that you can give the w._b. you are to be doubled by members of our American society
You'll want to get your contribution to us right away because looking at the matching money that we have
I don't think it's going to last past ten o'clock it may not even last until ten o'clock so now is the time to get your contribution in and get it doubled the only time it will be doubled in our fall fund drive
One eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven is the number to call give you that again one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven and you can also get your contribution doubled at W. B. U. R. dot O. R. G.
You know create some anxiety out there by saying that match money is going to run out but it also means that a wonderful thing is happening here this morning it means a lot of people are recognizing the need for WB you are the value for W. B. you are
The desire to protect independent journalism on WB you are and they're acting on it by giving us their pledge this morning they're pledged that doubled thanks to this manage money so right now while the match money is still available we're asking you to recognize the same things and make the same pledge
But not really the same pledge because all we're asking you to do is give whatever it's worth to you you choose the amount no matter how large no matter you know how affordable it is to you all pledges viewed equally because when you give
That can be involved in just a ticket attacks planning and shifting of profits they they're rich also have the resources to hire lawyers and to Egypt sophisticated planning in a way that the working class cannot
Does anyone know how much time goes on page ... their estimates and then
Well it's very difficult to to to say oh well we're not collecting um there's been a lot of work on multinational corporations
And at least until we change the law last year the U.S with losing something like a hundred billion dollars a year to profit shifting the factor multinationals operate in many jurisdictions
And can choose to allocate profits to tax havens and expenses too high tax jurisdictions worldwide I think the estimates are in the several hundred billion in terms of multi task multi multinational tax avoidance do profit shifting
And see people often talk about the line between tax avoidance that which is legal in tax evasion which is illegal is being as a blood one is that true
Certainly true I practiced tax law for ... ... over Twenty years ago before I joined I might think tank and
Each of my clients wanted to pay its fuel taxes as possible and there are legal way to avoid taxes
But then it starts to get gray there are aggressive positions that are likely to lose if challenged but for which there is at least an argument and then there are positions in which the argument is really frivolous and then if you go beyond that there are positions in which tax fraud
Or tax mission is occurring and and that's criminal
... and just in sort of twenty seconds has anything to do better in the policy is despite the focus has been on this and she
Well we have improved similar the recording in two thousand and
Our Congress adopted a variety of rules for us citizens to report on foreign accounts so we have more information of instances but what makes things worse is the world continue to become much more global and a lot more international and profit shifting and
Allocating expenses to various jurisdictions is quite common and it's the same time the world is becoming more global and more complicated than our IRS is losing more and more resources budget
Oh thank you very much in the Steve Rosenthal that talking to us from Washington DC rescue teams are still trying to reach for terrorists to sue the way she the Indonesian island hit by an earthquake and tsunami the BBC's Rebecca ... is in ... uh one of the cities on the island she's been talking to some of the
Survivors and not as strong aftershock since no running outside having one year old Fiona earthquake she says for the the up often it's OK everything is okay he s ... tell us to see
And it was at home and put do vote when the powerful quake hit triggering mudslides and sinking houses
Excavated said digging through a huge pile of ... in ... by the black thing my this is where the on his son used to be and it's also with his mother
And younger sibling and now buried in the the top of the house is through the mud hole houses turned upside down most image the quake hit completely altering the landscape the
Owner was saved by here eleven year old brother and my that didn't make it out
And then there's that when I'm On my food ...
She keeps asking why is my mother when his mom coming back I tell her that she's on the loan Johnny on a motorbike to get ... she's too traumatized to know now when she is loud noises she has faced SCAD
His father was in jail when the quake destroyed the walls of the prison escapes and rushed to find out if he's family was okay
Now back in and said no I uh an ad on me to look after the oh now I have always been like a second mom and I have any law was I was in hopes
Of finding more people alive and now fading and with huge areas still cut off from power and clean water ...
Those who survived a struggling after days of waiting in a remote village ... and his family decided they had to walk to get help at ... airport ... done in the food that is definitely ... to
Ten hours through the mountains to reach here no one's coming to health is at the ministry of telling people out free I decided to come
We took with the place we were wearing when
They go down about ... and eat some bread is is that the strength that had since yesterday with the airport now open the military's ... planes are able to bring in much needed aid it also taking out traumatized women and children
BBC's Rebecca ... from ... in Indonesia
Were funded by you our listeners and by extending the with the local stores featuring ... products including extending the mobile and the extent of the Internet store locations addicts finish these stores dotcom
Smart cheat and online platform used by forging one hundred and five hundred companies to plan management execute work across teams and organizations smart she were different an artist for humanity's greatest party on earth October thirteenth
Celebrating creative teams at the expanded epicenters grand opening more at greatest party on earth dot coms
This is not important nine ... Jay Clayton for just a couple of minutes before we go right back to the b._b._c. on WB you are
But we want to let you know this fundraiser is ending tomorrow and because it is
In because we still need to raise you know somewhere around four hundred and fifty thousand dollars between now and the time the fundraiser closes tomorrow a group of generous listeners members of the ... society it put up money to double every pledge for a little while yet this morning
Asking you to match their generosity by giving right now and but the same time having your dollars from the news on WB you are go twice as far because their match dollar for dollar it's the first the last and the only dollar for dollar match the fundraiser so getting right now at one
Eight hundred nine zero nine
Nine to eight seven or give at W. B. U. R. dot org but we suggest giving right away because the match money Jay is not going to last long
Right the number again is one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or W. B. U. R. dot org to get in on that dollar for dollar match and protect independent journalism with your support of WB you are many people have
Which is why we've got only about twenty seven thousand dollars left in matching money we have
Had a started out with about a hundred thousand so only twenty seven thousand left and if you want to get
Used part of that to double your support you'll need to call quickly uh to get in on it one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or W. B. U. R. dot org ... is the way that you get in on it
And you know how it works you have a hundred dollars on a double for do on a double match it means it's worth two hundred for the news if you give a thousand dollars it's worth two thousand for the news
If you are in this era of political instability appreciate the fact that we're the steady voice
Uh uh bringing you news analysis a and opinions but all sides of opinions on all sides then
If you were thinking about giving us a large pledge like five or ten thousand dollars as some people have in this fundraiser now's the time to do it when that pledge an all the others can be doubled the match money is Jay says is running out
Number to call is one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or give at W. B. U. R.
Dot org fact I just said twenty seven thousand left now just twenty five thousand left that gives you an example of how quickly this is running out so
Before you missed your chance to go to the phone and now are the Web and make your contribution to get it doubled one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or W. B. U. R. dot org is how you get your contribution doubled
Or where you get your contribution doubled I should say and what you're doing is protecting vital independent journalism here on WB you are you know
How state how high the stakes are in the decision of whether or not to
A confirmed the nomination of Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court you know how high the stakes are in the ... midterm elections
W. B. U. R. is all about bringing you fair minded non partisan independent not for profit journalism to help you understand the issues that you need to know about
And that's why we need your contribution because that's how we keep WB you are independent
So the number to call one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or W. B. U. R. dot O. R. G. last of the twenty five thousand dollars left in the only dollar for dollar match in our fall fundraiser [noise]
You're giving at this moment for the b._b._c. on WB you are but your money also goes to work for MORNING EDITION all things considered on point coming up at the end with magna
Here and now with Robin and Jeremy at noon time today all the programs on WB you are of vapor WVU R. dot org and all the podcast the that enrich your life that we give you a year from W. B. U. R. so we're asking you to consider all did you get from W. B. U. R. and then give a little back
Whatever all this is worth view while you can still have your pledge WVU are doubled and as we've been telling you the match money the dollar for dollar match money the only dollar for dollar match
The fall on Dr is running out one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven is the number to call or go online to do would you be ... or to get right now at nine forty
And
That [noise]
[noise]

And he's from the BBC we live in London I'm James Menendez nah climate change is one of the defining stories of all time and heroin user you think it deserves more attention so we're not seeing a permanent change to our reporting from today we're going to cover the climate change at least once a week every week
When we'll be doom and gloom though the challenges of dealing with the effects of global warming demand some innovative thinking that's already happening tech business and politics rule involving an exciting way and that's
What we're hoping to convey we're going to stop the series in no way the country committed to green energy but on this current hugely rich on oil
My colleague Richard ... is the rest of the
Well can James ... says builds on an island and surrounded by snow dusted peaks lying on the phone northwestern sits has no way this is the city that thinks that itself is a gateway to the optic Sacco
And if you're in any doubts about just how far north we are in the depths of winter there's been any daylight here is all but like ... if palate like clean green hydro electricity to keeping the lights on is cheap
They see the country that's proud of a switch to renewable energy last month full ... percent of the new cars filled in Norway were electric and like twenty twenty five the government wants to end the ... new petrol and diesel powered cars
And there's an irony you know one of the environmental sounds congratulations well new labels to wean it soon citizens of fossil fuels it remains one of the world's biggest oil and gas produces an list all of that production is exposed to it
So even as the country's tries to clean up its own carbon footprint it's profiting from the sales of its most polluting energy sources abroad
And then finding out more in the way something oil capital [noise]
Still just about coming in and out of ... may hall that that that's a silver and that's the kind of ... three day if I tell you that ...
Texas you can probably guess ... the city's famous for denying it used to be a sleepy fishing town but it's now the capital of new ways oil and gas industry I've been off the people here will they may cause the country's ...
I think we can get a job you know what I mean we're moving or for
Today's technology using electric cars who we don't really need for a sexual if you can afford it than boys yeah but there's no very involvement Friendly's doubled the price if you ask me
What needs oil and gas for quite a long time it would be great if we could just use water force and supply electricity to the world stage we now
... proud of its role in making Norway well see there's a whole museum here devoted to the oil industry and the children's player is made up of discarded pipes and beans from oil rigs [noise]
My name is headed up I'm a I'm a called ... which is a regional paper pot in something
They found the oil in Nineteen sixty nine and the position had they really really ... uh get
Among it's become the oil kept to know why and they succeeded so all the big oil company the here now and that means that people have quite a lot of money
Compared to what they did a lot from two thousand four team that was my civil crisis here in the country when they all price
Went down from a hundred dollar a barrel to about ... and about fifty thousand people
That don't have a massive impact and the low company so that we have to think about something else in the oil because they can happen again when there was a big oil there and that was
Not much talk about maybe we have to do something about
Mission you change change the world changes now
As we know the company had that smoking caffeine emissions from oil and gas production a lot more than they have this whole and that oath by investing in that sorry ... and the end when power
A lot more full staff now than I was just a couple of years ago
I did change
Just no way main oil and gas producer which until recently used to be noted that soil when I made a dash for it through the rain and I've come to a bakery which is filled with the smell of cinnamon and coffee and I come here to meet more sneak from Ecuador and how does the ... the more than half of noise exports the made up of oil and gas
They should to the country's green image
In the future and for the world from each other for instance the Paris Agreement
Coding must be faced out through extensive use of new renewables on natural gas for you must have some point to meet its demand beach actually the sooner the better because I looked for sort of fears needs to remain in round
But still that will be a need for new supplies since the ... and the coming decades we're still need or the important thing for us is that the oil that will be a part of the image and makes them the future is actually the point with the lowest emissions from the production
He's such a loving stool by this idea that noise production is is clean but is it any cleaner than the other major will produce than say Saudi Arabia and all that figure is similar to the ...
I think you can go around the globe and look for ... or the fields and find variations been reached on average emissions from the origin of metal shop around nine to you know ...
If you compare that to do an international level it's Seventy and candles and the production but other countries will have some of the levels deals affect you can find individual fields
But if you look at an average will also find are also in Norway refined for instance just outside of your song or
Or one hundred and fifty ... one of the biggest uh unfair and the world for which were from next year stopped producing that would be produced with practically no emissions from the production censored this being powered from a short
As a big company are you worried that institutional investors will begin to turn away from fossil fuels because it's seen as policy uh does CNN she system that people want to distance themselves from
I think it's something we need to keep an open dialogue with the also the investor market or move F where we are also explaining are investors that we are preparing for a
Future would actually really expect the emissions from Syria to needs to have a higher costs and when we are now planning or projects we are adding on more costs
For higher costs so that we can make sure that for projects that can accept the higher the of your costs because we have to ... to me because
I Know that last week and that's the guy on in these offshore wind farms and so on is it possible to quantify how much we know is investing in New oil drilling that this the investment and many of
Us off today I think that for renewable investments represent a small part of the investments in October to we have a strong emissions to invest more we see that within twenty first
Fifteen to twenty percent of all over ... the company went from within renewable energy [noise] but I think we have started out in a small scale but we're in a definitely rent for a position for more in Europe of years to come
That's most in IQ is ... ... new way states and oil company I'm joined now from pollen and to know like my ... eldest and noisy environment minister welcome to lose our
Own Allison noise upon their when it comes to dumped in green energy and yet at the same time your country that still making an awful lot of money exposing fossil fuels doesn't not punish your environmental credentials
No I think that we're very aware of this or is it kind of paradox so we need a strategy that has two sides to it one is that we want to lead into use so the the ... mission technology as you mentioned now we had last month was forty seven percent or electric car sales
FM Boston home of Boston's largest radio newsroom Ninety two points of WB you a to Z bury it on point one WVU wage Brewster and streaming WVU our dog or W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR News
Station and five hours GMT welcome to the news or I'm from the b._b._c. World Service I'm Alex roots and officials in Indonesia concern the entire ... alert system was out of action and had to friday's earthquake and tidal wave in which thousands of fit that
Donald Trump now says he backs the FBI investigation and taste I didn't Supreme Court nominee but protests a growing
Bolivia loses a court case I have a coastline taken by ... century or the Mexican Mac given Seventy two hours to explain the disappearance of hundreds of police full skeletons ... hind to scenes on well ballet day
The wonderful say is that we've got to ... to love thought I knew people coming to enjoying it not just to watch to try to themselves you are listening to the b._b._c. World Service
I'm Stuart Macintosh with the b._b._c. news hello
Full days off of the devastating earthquake and tsunami that hit the Indonesian island of sort of ways the anger is increasing among traumatized survive as in the worst hit settlements as they wait for aid to reach them
The devastated infrastructure is hampering relief efforts but feature Wilson of the Australian Red Cross says people are still being rescued
The first responders a Red Cross reaching more and more remote areas thankfully but it it really is a race against time there were stories that merging of surviving under rebel for several days now so we'll continue to focus on that but uh you know at the time goes by over state I saw diminish [noise]
There's no easy fix hair but there is a massive international effort being mobilized as we speak so that we can provide more and more support to Indonesia to the intonation government authorities
President Trump says his decision to threaten terrorists on countries he believed for trading unfairly with the United states help them come to the negotiating table he was speaking in Dubai town some new U.S trade deal concluded with Canada and Mexico to jump said renegotiating the deal was part of his campaign to become president
We have negotiated this new agreement based on the principle of fairness and reciprocity
To me it's the most important word and drag because we'd been treated so unfairly by so many nations all over the world that we're changing that
His negotiator Robert Lighthizer
Said he believed the deal would be approved in Congress with a substantial majority because he said it was beneficial to old policies with less than a week to go before Brazil's presidential election of federal judge has released testimony potentially in protecting two former presidents from the left wing workers' party into corruption
Judge that says you Maro authorized the publication of a plea bargain statement by the former finance minister Antonio Pelosi
Be another Russia reports
Misstep I lost the accuses the former president Luiz ... Lula da Silva Abbas to siphon of millions of dollars from Brazil state oil company pivotal but ice to fund the successful electoral campaign of your mother says
She was later impeached for budget irregularities beset by law seeing Lula are both in jail for corruption
Lewis lawyers had released a statement rejecting the allegations they accused judge mode of political bias they say that the publication of the testimony was stunned to harm the electoral performance of the work as a candidate on some of these votes
Protest has clashed with police in Buffalo on Monday assassins took to the streets there and in other cities across Catalonia to mark the first anniversary of a controversial referendum on independence from Spain more than a hundred and eighty thousand demonstrators marched in Barcelona police charged into break up a demonstration
In front of the capital and regional parliament [noise] this is the will of news from the BBC
Germany's governing coalition policies say they've agreed on the policy to reduce emissions from polluting diesel vehicles without implementing driving bans in the worst affected cities or income because of the late night talks ministers gave no specifics saying plans will be outlines later
He's still they'll combined trading incentives to get the worst pollution cows off the roads
Alone with subsidies to retrofit clean a diesel engines and exhaust technologies
The charity save the children says suspected cholera cases of almost tripled in Yemen's western province of data since fighting there escalated in June to renew to coal for all the warring parties to stop hostilities now me currently has the details
Number of color are cases in war torn Yemen is on the rise across the board but the situation in the western province of that data
... says it's health centers in the area have recorded a one hundred and Seventy percent increase in the number of suspected cholera cases the challenge he believes the leak cases coincides with eh strikes this summer which damage to sanitation facility and will to station
A new study from the Netherlands indicates almost half of women are the third of all men will develop dementia Parkinson's disease or have a stroke during their lifetimes conditions predominantly affect older people in the lower rate for men is because on average that don't live as long as women the researchers say better preventative measures to full stole the conditions
Dutch research study twelve thousand people of European ancestry
And say their findings may not apply to other ethnic populations
French interior ministry Sharon ... has submitted his resignation but president Emmanuel Macron has refused to accept it used to kill him total if you grow newspaper
That he didn't want to use ministry unsettled by his decision to run for the morality of the city of Rio in twenty twenty BBC News
You're listening to the newsroom from the b._b._c. World Service was me ... volunteers have begun bearing victims of into the easiest deadly earthquake and tsunami in a mass grave friday's disaster devastated swayed subsidize the
Left will have an eight hundred people that
You know situations is warned more than a hundred and Ninety thousand people in ... and they need help some remote areas have yet to be contacted and there are fears the number of deaths could rise for the blocked roads and damaged infrastructure hampering the rescue and recovery effort
Or Puerto Rico or is making her way to the worst affected area ... the capital of pseudo ...
Within driving about when the hours and we have a ... at the police station where we're waiting for instructions on how to be escorted into ...
And that's because they have been reports of looting of people uh just desperate for water and said that caused going into the area and they have been reports that they've been limited as say that's why we're waiting for the police escort as we continued on Jane ...
Infrastructure I guess as is in Asia convinced ... how old is a very modest lead veils vi
Would and break that probably similar to what people has ... probably not strong enough to withstand a strong earthquake and tsunami people in the fall parts of the country they simply just has a financial needs to build houses is strong enough to withstand these natural dissolves that
Has the full extent of the disaster becomes a parent's questions being off to the in the news in governments preparation to such events officials have confirmed none of the country's Saddam eight to ... to boys are working when the earthquake struck
The system was instilled off to the deadly Saddam me on books in day in two thousand and fool more details from Asia Pacific region editor see they're
More than a hundred and sixty thousand people were killed in Indonesia nearly Fifteen Years ago when huge tsunami waves and goal to large portions of its coastline
To prevent such a disaster happening again and advance sue now and the warning system was given to Indonesia
A joint donation from Germany the United states in Malaysia is featured Twenty one floating boys which would interact with sensors on the sea floor costing several hundred thousand pounds each the large boys would be able to gauge accurately the size and speed of the city now anyways
Potentially getting people on shore a better chance of reaching safety is siren sounded than in twenty sixteen
Another earthquake revealed the system with working the government promised to repair or replace it
With following friday six meters tsunami waves disaster agency spokesperson told the BBC's Indonesian service
That this anatomy detection boys were no longer in operation because they've been damaged by vandals or stolen officials that a lack of funds and delayed the systems replacement although there is some evidence to indicate that three Indonesian government agencies
Couldn't agree which portion of the government should pay for this assistance upkeep
Which led to it being neglected [noise]
Sooner than they decision on whether the center in Washington will nominate Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court continues to transfixed many Americans
President Trump provides fully supportive of Mr ... know despite the FBI investigating sexual assault allegations against him or do you use conference Mr Trump said the FBI must be able to carry out its work on hampered but he added the investigation was not become a witch hunt and should progress quickly
As soon as the news from from the b._b._c. World Service the Bolivian president Evo Morales that says that his country will never give up its campaign to regain celebrating access to the Pacific ocean
His comments come off to the international court of justice ruled in favor of chilly in a territorial dispute that dates back to Eighteen Ninety four when Bolivia was defeated in the wars of the civic the judges at the un coach and I decided to Chile wasn't surprised to renegotiate that border
Julian president Sebastian today Ira hailed the tools that act on Collins is in the past
Decision issue to see in Bolivia and this is still a huge national issue or children and the lines of country talked about the return to the belittling the children he flaps in many cases in most cases that never actually seen the there were also what you see it on ... and buildings around the country which say the sees all us by right to recover
It is it UT and Bolivia sides
Standing navy with bases in like due to caucus and parts of the Amazon and they're trained to return to the sea so this is an issue which is a huge national issue is a very emotional issue
And it goes beyond the politics of ever morale is the current president it's something that as being a kid or if his government but not just his government many others proceeding so what's the reaction been to this
Well this really five years in the managing was a pretty sweeping rejection of the Libyan case and I was in the main square in LA Times
Today where hundreds of each were assembled watching the decision on a big screen and I have to say there was some disappointment willing sense and I think though is that it doesn't end here a lot of people can do you need to John
That they weren't the return of the Bolivian see and I spoke to a couple of activists and this is what they told me
Was born in this this is almost want to know it makes all Bolivian saps especially the young the use of the ones who dream of a seat but this decision how how hot we're not going to give up Bolivia once it's seen and sooner or later Bolivia will have to see
Whether or not get him on his photo ran over to that amount
That we have only nine that taking the maritime demonic to the international court at the Hague was an option but that I possibly can take what we must recognize it even morale is leadership in putting this on an international level said home wild conceding injustice done to Bolivia
And presumably the Chilean government going to say this is a well confirmation of the status quo
They the status quo is very much concerned Shelley Shelly presidents to back in an era
Actually attacks are everywhere are they saying that he builds up a false hope in Bolivia with an winnable lawsuits which he falls in the Hague five years ago and he said no one sentence and that surely would never negotiate one iota of its sovereign
Territory on the other hand Bolivia and said that it's willing to to try and negotiate but that
Looks like a study on like a prospect at least for the short to
The Mexican ... Acapulco was once a glamorous gets away for Hollywood jets that
With the security forces having to tackle the growing threat of organized crime the city is now living around with a different reality now the sources of given Acapulco was former ... Seventy two hours to explain why hundreds of guns and missing from police summer as
Last week the entire local police force was put under federal investigation or Latin America's original ... is that Russia
It's a it's a surreal situation federal police and the Marines Mexican Marines went to a couple last week and they put the whole police for about seven hundred policemen and police women under investigation in and ... them
And when they went to to look for the guns and see the the the guns that were there they realize that there were three hundred and forty two weapons missing
And the former mayor of all of a Alaska is
Has been asked what's happened to those guns I mean what people know and the reason why that raises investigation
He's the supposed link between the local police and the criminal gangs it in and just the ... states where a couple of ways is a place where you have big problems in the ... the state of ... is very violent and is dominated by different gangs and it's on the Pacific coast
So a lot of these drug trafficking going to California and all that so it's a very violent situation we had some of those stories cases of decapitation Zinn in central areas of Acapulco
Than it is these is not the first case in Mexico there was a small town but all the police force was
Handcuffed and taken into custody to Mexico City the main evil meant ... with the ... the criminal gangs within these there was local police and the ... that's why the Marines and federal police have intervenes
Has some other stories from our news desk China's defense ministry has expressed its opposition to a U.S naval operation in contested waters in the south China Sea during which a Chinese warship falls to us distraught to change calls the ministry called the U. S. operation a threat to China's sovereignty in a separate statement the foreign
Ministry in Beijing strongly or the United states just don't put it cold such provocative actions us first lady Melania Trump has become a full country tour of Africa it's the
First time she's represented to husbands have been ... with a major solar trip
This is Trump or beginning gone up before traveling to lobby Kenya and Egypt a tourist expected to focus on humanitarian children's is used
At a time when the Trump Administration has been pressing ... foreign aid
Africa since taking office Rome's health authorities say dozens of people have died in hundreds have been poisoned and the last three weeks off to drinking contaminated bootleg alcohol ... people to go to hospital if they feed on well but many a reluctant to his ... his band into most of the nation
Despite the ban bootleg alcohol is widely available and the New Zealand company says it up for successful trial of a four day working week it will now adult to shed you'll full time company should should withdraw stuff reported less stress high level of job satisfaction and to a greater sense of work life
Balance now still do fancy becoming a professional by done so you haven't got the seat for it
Will ballet Jay that means some of the most famous downs companies in the world a character streaming there has to live on the Internet the newsrooms brought you to enter ... reports

In [noise]
Tchaikovsky one like the eloquent notes of perhaps the most well known ballet production conjuring up images of legendary ... such as ... pain on Rudolph nudity have blading effortlessly across the stage since its beginnings and the fifteenth century Italian Renaissance court
Ballet has always been regarded as one of the toughest don'ts regimes to muster
Licks swollen trained under the British royal ballet says they're shown or a special and becoming fashionable again the wonderful say is that we could have ... thought I knew people coming to enjoy it not just to watch to try to themselves
And what well ballet day does it introduced new audience says she wonders if I can do the mentally and physically and emotionally it's an amazing thing to be part of the ballet cost critics impulse in pointed to ballet as being elitist
Bus flick Swann says that by the schools
In training companies are increasingly looking to reach a wider audience I'd encourage more don'ts is from ethnic minorities to take up by lake you conduct ballet dancers light misty Copeland
She's inspiration from ... ethics she's from an ethnic background and yet has achieved more than many
You just have to look across the fashion wild and see the inspiration is a lot of the classical costs you designs coming into our everyday fashion by Palm Springs on who you and you have to look Chris younger but now that I frequent makes it getting can lead to some of the incredibly talented and how these ... down to the cost of well
U.S policy of this year's will by Labor Day organizes inviting in queues yes to shift videos and be possible for the longest ... around the
Blurb on the hoop such events will help they become adults fools democracies [noise]
Or just ... who genuinely is about I don't say in his spare time
May use this out the motives of ... and so to students being found in a church that was started by a landslide during the earthquake on the Indonesian island as soon as I see punching will indeed when he was focused and other things to listening to the news from
[noise]
Distribution of the BBC World service in the U.S has made possible by the American public media producer and distributor of award winning public radio contest eight PM American public meeting with support
From the financial services firm of Raymond James offering personalized wealth management advice capital markets expertise with a commitment to put in clients' financial needs first more Raymond James on
The following is attached to the emergency alert system

[noise] [noise]
[noise]
[noise]
R. dot org W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR News station
They six o'clock in London and I add welcome to stay on the BBC what service would learns pull out and may change
Something no [noise] I went back in Indonesia of his money where the pressures on to help those hit by the ... hundreds of thousands waiting for food water released many ... who's in charge
For say leading scientists amazing is South Korea this week to see if global temperatures can be cat from rising by more than one point five degrees Celsius essentially
Times who writes science using a diamond light sauce to study the internal structure of moon rocks which is kind of important because as you mentioned there's not many moon rocks here on us using non destructive techniques is really important to us there's still a lot to be done in the ones we have but we have to be careful with what we have
The most average in California's biggest says they're unhappy with a new little things that they must have point women so that ... coming up on news day after this for the Senate ... [noise]

I'm ... back in touch with the b._b._c. news hello
Aid workers are moving into more remote areas on the Indonesian island of ... the way she four days off but it was struck by an earthquake and tsunami in one village the bodies of building Sochi
Students were recovered from a church that have been engulfed by a landslide rescue efforts being hampered by devastated infrastructure and the shortage of heavy equipment
Pete Wilson is the international director for the Australian red
Their stories that merging of surviving people who have been under rebel for several days now so we'll continue to just focus on that finding ways to
There's got to be really gets a cold but it is a priority [noise]
Um and you were talking about it often very isolated areas very remote areas and communication lines are down ... transportation is very difficult so it's there's no easy fix hair but there is a massive international effort being mobilized as we speak
With less than a week to go before Brazil's presidential election and a federal judge has released testimony
Potentially involve catching two former presidents from the left wing workers policy and corruption judge ... says you Maro authorized the publication of a plea bargain statement by the former finance minister Antonio Pelosi is that America is that it's a you know the Russia
Misstep I lost the accuses the former president Luiz ... Lula da Silva of asking him to siphon of millions of dollars from Brazil state oil company ... throw but ice to fund the successful electoral campaign of your mother says
She was later impeached for budget irregularities beset by last Lula are both in jail for corruption Lewis lawyers have released a statement rejecting the allegations
They accused Judge Moore of political bias they say that the publication of the testimony was timed to harm the electro performance of the work as a candidate on some of these
Protests has clashed with police in Barcelona among the thousands took to the streets there and in other cities across Catalonia
To mark the first anniversary of a controversial referendum on independence from Spain more than a hundred and eighty thousand demonstrators marched in Barcelona police challenged in to break up a demonstration at the council and regional parliament Kevin leave reports
A year on from the illegal independence referendum some demonstrators favor that long term goal as taking a huge step back to help ease the continuing political crisis ... president address on she has offered capital and the chance of a referendum on race and autonomy but has ruled out the inclusion of a choice for self rule
A spokesman for the cats on government joined Maria PKK told the BBC the socialist government should consider that offer Catholic ... to unless an independence referendum also what he said the separatist off our teams would look to create another right to civil disobedience
World news from the BBC
Germany's governing coalition policies say they've agreed on the policy to reduce emissions from pillaging diesel vehicles without in preventing driving bans in the worst affected cities or hurting comic is off the late night talks ministers gave no specifics same plans would be outlines they to
Each so they'll combined traded incentives to get worse polluting cars off the roads along with subsidies to retrofit cleaner diesel engines and exhaust technologies
The charity says the children's says suspected cholera cases have almost tripled in Yemen's western province of data since fighting there escalated in June it renew to cold for all the warring parties to stop hostilities Naomi grim the has the details
The number is cholera cases in war torn Yemen is on the rise across the board but the situation in the western province of data it's particularly Gran save the children says it's health centers in the area have recruited a one hundred and Seventy percent increase in the number of suspected cholera cases
That challenge he believes they sleep in cases Kevin's sites with ads strikes this summer which damage to sanitation facility and will to station
A new study from the Netherlands indicates that almost half of women in the third of men will develop dementia Parkinson's disease or have a stroke during their lifetimes the conditions predominant the effect told the people in the lower rate for men because on average the live as long as women there is such as say better preventative measures I needed to fool stole the conditions
An Eighteen year old ... remote silver mine in the U.S state of Alaska has been killed in an encounter with a grizzly bear until two cubs a manager the mines that it was the first such beret checking it two years of operating on have multi eyes and ooh free bass was killed before state troopers arrived at the scene
It's the second fatal molding in Alaska this year
Or less the b._b._c. news [noise]
Thank you very much ... everybody will continue to stay with on hold out and meet James ... coming up a scientist with the job of explaining what climate change means the meeting this week
But we'll get to get a reminder of why it matters so much who started compulsory appointments of women to some companies in California everybody's happy about that and the moon walk under the microscope a giant ring shaped and strikes microscope to be precise that Mario ... pulled out a ... in the next few minutes
And if you any reaction joining you hear the program the sinus attacks numbers past forty four Seventy seven eighty six twenty fifty eighty five [noise]
Let's begin in Indonesia four days after the devastating earthquake and tsunami
Drinking water than you power or they need someone in charge of the picture painted by a BBC correspondents in part of the main city in the disasters of is pretty grim uh people hunting for um victims in the ruins off with that the homes more than eight hundred are confirmed that the number sadly is expected to increase
It was relief workers reach a previously on reach areas you any sort of the army is country manager of the Catholic Relief services or has a dwarf is on the ground in ... a unique just tell our listeners are what are your work is telling you about the situation there
And our our team found out and also reported today
That the situation didn't change since yesterday people already in Britain meet all food of shelters and clean water a which is not available easily even our team will have to um scramble to find food and water are in that area [noise]
The damage and the destruction is quite defecting and um people are still living outside in the hands in this makeshift and are waiting for the assistance to come
What sorts of coordination are you seeing from the authorities
[noise] the government or denies all the a humanitarian workers in urban education to corn solved and I'm ... I'm holding it with them our responses they're
Currently I'm would they have these according they shouldn't be thing going on in in the uh responding fence are entitled to coordinate all the human it didn't act or ... and just to make sure that all the ... are covered all house we reach the need
Do you think that people are being left to do a great deal for themselves I mean the stories and the pictures we see you know absolutely heartbreaking of people trying to excavate their own areas to find their loved ones it's quite remarkable him quite remarkably grim an ... of people having to do a great deal themselves
[noise] um at some point or because it's so hard to get heavy equipment or that area
The search and rescue team mission is still underway but the situation is quite challenging because it's not easy to get access to those areas
Without heavy equipment so people the uh the survivor and also the ... the work hand in hand to help us much and as best as they could uh to find their loved ones to find that they've and family a while at the same time government deploys all
I'm assets and all the resources that they could to help
Accelerate the search and rescue mission
How long do you expect your people will stay on the ground will sort of an operation is this
And women in the room and it doesn't matter it's fairly
Lead to better policy outcomes we want
Like you just gotta just got up and so that from Loyola Law school in Los Angeles
Last night so no disagreement ... there's a problem is just how to the middle of ...
And there was an awful lot of research which suggests that the more diverse company board is the best of the company itself performance financially
Many facts into a rubbing with the business ... from Rob throughout the morning
Saturday fifty years after that first small step on the moon samples collected by astronauts on the Apollo missions have been idolized and the scientific experiment I haul well in ... here in the u._k.
And international team of scientists from ... to us and the u._k. have used the diamond lights was a kind of joined a ring shaped X ray microscope studied the internal structure of the
Moon rocks are understandably pretty rare so you can't do what you would normally do to an ... crush it up into little bits and see what's inside so the X ray technique allow scientists to see
Ah the amazing structures of the rocks without actually damaging them so they hope to find out more about the composition of the moon and also I'm intrigued me about what kind of activity she on us when we're home field and reports
This is the face of the moon but I have my hands switches choir amazing statement for somebody to think
Carefully and ... just dumped him on the coast proposed to mix slice of moon broke some more on assuming small dog sliver bobsled to be inserted into the ... of the ... the Brotherhood of code for the ... ...
This is this the ... and ... and this is a piece from posting mission and they've been sitting resentful about foot happen someday [noise] despite
Appearing hustling points in the night sky because of the brilliance of the sunlight reflecting off its surface ... he's actually quite do
These symbols from both the Apollo twelve and a polar Fifteen missions the ... to take advantage of a unique new imaging technique to visit to dumb and the huge do not ... syndrome works like a John microscope to study their internal structure [noise]
During his boss [noise] from going to be little going door and experimental hunch would be ... sixteen [noise] going to get a counter in and took the ...
What we have here on the sixteen is used to live laundries
One is the ... all the X ray optics happens where we ... we make it into the shape that we want
And then it comes in the heat which is the experimental half way Wi Fi sometimes some different filters to modify the energy of the ... before it gets to sample and also this is where the imaging actually how we're trying to
Preserve the samples so that everyone can study them indefinitely into the future but we still want to get as much science out of them as possible
Surprisingly perhaps it doesn't have a facility like the Germans light so ooh the expertise to do this kind of detailed internal structure analysis something of a feather written the u._k. selling
On ... on the Apollo simple curator from NASA at Johnson Space center in Houston, Texas and so using non destructive techniques like we're doing here diamond is really important to us yeah because it's a
It's a finite resource as an editor and he said many mineral here on it and that's exactly right we haven't gotten any more new moon rocks back for about forty five years now and so we're still there's still a lot to be done in the ones we have
But we have to be careful with what we have [noise]
Which by the way and your image has just come up yeah this is a philosophical contracted needing ... at a
Computer screen and the female and control room diamonds from Joan wing and much pain 'cause pool it'd be the result says
Uh an office phones crystal of miracle deal not which is very documents patriots very dense with a tiny rocks I'd miss a lot of thought
And all around it it's surrounded by for space so maybe one interpretation is that is crystal was actually been growing at the same time that the rock is evolving and moving away from it and vote files or the other space is forming around that crystal and help you open your keep its not shy
First hear about the formation of the moon but also
About the formation over about volcanic activity fauna
That's right because of the similarities we can draw conclusions based on these comparative studies but whenever I go to Mike once we have all these data then it's time to reflect back
On the kind of lessons that we learn from these rocks and then apply button that new knowledge and perspectives on to the kind of features that we see in the air throw
A report from ... when he says moving quite dark I think he meant quite do that doesn't mean you know the interesting just not much to look at
Sean ... the legendary French singer has died at the age of Ninety four born to parents who had a million immigrants he sold more than a hundred and eighty million records and featured in sixty films loved by fronts president Emmanuel Macron said has never had a company three generations of French people
Who the happiness and ... the French ... have you is one of them you
Way that any emotional and you
Talk about this gentleman who settled in that rule was an extraordinary man he was who
Tells you is ugly he was told he was too short to is five foot three ... tells he had a bad choice you had to like friendships go down to who I looked like they will cool
You know who just you know while you're on on
What is extraordinary performances [noise] then that's why it presents the hajj this whole line mean quintessentially French law yet who is of Armenian immigrants parents who had fled the genocide in their income shape he was so full of
Action and feelings and at least all
Was like a one I land you would need to keep your group
City or just you know when
Lived in Germany ... pay here but I mean

Going to sleep on the French twentieth century
DNA music institution and this is a non issue ads
Thousands sold his credit who had a love of language I Love the French language headphones lightning described as Balad they were full of ... they talk about life they talked about love they talked about last year he was quite a few taboo he
Was a heterosexual linemen had a dream why what is interesting I mean it was a pioneering about
Communicate to the fact that I met him he stole was almost like a one act play
What did he [noise]
He
Says the people who
Need actually will want to listen to his shows again for those
Who do no planes left and made the guards by hand and either find anybody not to be ...
You can actually people taught is what will lay low off and he's subtle ... many millions of other people
I really think he was alleging that what is often missing in Charles as nickels case I Would say it was well and truly does at
His talent is occupied street
It's hard to walk watched that
I liked it and then as soon as those
Distribution of the b._b._c. World Service in the United states is made possible by American public media
Producer and distributor of award winning public radio content ATM American public media with support from home advisor matching homeowners with home improvement professionals for a variety of home projects from minor repairs to major role models homeowners can read reviews of local pros
And book appointments online at home advisor dot com
From Boston University this is Ninety point nine W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR News station with live streaming at W. B. U. R. dot org [noise]
This is Charlie cold ... in the forecast showers and drizzle overnight areas Apache fog lose in the mid fifties clouds Tuesday with the chance of showers highs around sixty degrees
You could see the effect of companies
Moves and it would end the gum I Know that two thousand years from ... in the region wouldn't be close will secrete dealing
With the reduced to travel for the patients
Cuss the ballots in ... ... ... lives in ... in
... Mississippi was just to make sure that we see going back idiots where we got a problem I mean I didn't if I
Did too I'm grateful regions ... percent of the electorate and the outages where the opposition has historically been formed the highest in the movies
But many residents have been displaced due to the increasing security an info skiff you induce parts of the country country did have to submit your computer programs to to ... in order to get sicker Jesse stalls you speaking zooms
But in the ... and he has some political parties including diluted by half simply replace public meetings we do to do companies these foods you're not done Italy ... don't
We can't do the comparing the rivers before for ... for me to come from a label usual cutting out a massive kind of ... ... ... from Mountain View this or Saudi Arabia are more than one shot up our maritime given ...
[noise] ... at least one was an artist I'm from ... ... ... ... escalation of violence [noise]
We were ... ideas or genetic before a security forces ... officially by the ... country but ... English speakers are marginalized
Do the best one did not west and southwest to break off on the news to call ...
... ... ... ... ... ... ... law does not provide any specific instructions
On what is to be doing if voting is looked at in the locality however if done ... jumped from have affected defending our results they have the ... complaint to the closest should not court
Credit reporting from Amanda in ... vote is just at the end of this week
We're going to be talking um what really is a story to make your head hanging shame really about harassment of women in major cities I'm twenty two cities ... looking at where the worst off of various
Factors into one of the worst places ... and you're going to be hearing from for Rita I'm about to commute to work and what she has to put up within the dangerous
That she faces as well Eighteen minutes to the ... are we going to lose interest in quite an interesting story here about Rwanda Belgium
And Belgian was agree to return some effects from the colonial period particularly the archives
Or the project he's going to digitize all the colonial all kinds of position of museum of Central Africa in Brussels Brussels and the royal archives as well as the director of the Central African museum in Belgium ... explains how the return came about why it's not going to be a straightforward Honda and ...
... Ali above the archives and documentation and then a lot of the ... the school for was that the world a lot of little pull it off to get access to those are so worried about what I came back I wrote the book you'll see his report to our uh
My own ministers missiles thoughts policy the minister of Development Corporation the Oregon fair
Suggesting that we make an effort to digitize their lungs that are asked to do a
A return those ties to ditch the fold their love these though leaving us for the people go through the desert so but the the ... a week because it's such an easier so they are
Um there was ever even talk over the just the if we can go next to the part of the ditch so focused on
Because we don't have the buildings that yeah ... ... ... that's the story how's paper our cars it's got to be all the archives that the overall though that I kept either Belgium the with the the
... the job little facial role does the Belgium protect through Nineteen sixty two Nineteen sixty two so all the straight you saw the record the global wrinkle also record so for scientific research
This just for a living wage and government is is really a first it's the first time we go to the former colonial power will get access to his art cars to ah coalesce country from Africa maybe all the other example is that the lump sum sorted out most of the history of African countries just didn't really ... by
By white people I mean there's very few African historians or one of the reasons for that also is that simply because they'll get X just stood there are touched
On what might they find when they stop digging in those digitized ... the director of the Central African museum in Belgium headlines that are closer to the uh uh more than ... students
Who've been found dead in a church that was married by a landslide a just one of the horrible instances
And after the earthquake and tsunami on the Indonesian island of ... she was still awaiting news from a yet to be reached areas so the fear is that the eight hundred ... could rise and police clashed with protest is in Barcelona on the first anniversary of Catalonia's failed referendum on independence from Spain
[noise]
Semi Kenyon has this vote on effects Manchester United fans I'm a manager can expect a strong reaction to that recent wires today according to pneumonia matching the pressure's been piling on United in ... in particular with a series of poor results and continued stories about his relationship with key players especially for ...
... they might see it today in the second great game of the European Championship taken my two cents following very crocheting against west time at the weekend things must change
I expect that everyone really give more than a lot of the game and uh [noise] not only to get more to to be more plus a trip in just a
Small ... does that come close to a lawsuit against victims
Lots more matches tonight completing a test for you're not just like arrivals Manchester City in Germany they were shocked by me on that first came on like I often high today how often ... are like city and that they have a hugely wealthy evidence behind them bad the similarities and the anti tank a professional
Fairly recently going to the voters later ...
Recently as well let's hear more about them from a man who knows him very won a date because he waxes ... director of international relations not ...
Not that many years ago for them still played in the really low division amateur football
And then when the ... which is to the phone little essay the ... to go with the collapse retrieval playing actually as a junior and the young boy in the little league they constantly went a step by step
Fend off in ten years or we are actually in the ... you get the highest level in Germany or there was all up and down twice knew Nico delegated last season finale qualified for the first time to the euro league or in the fear
I think uh well obviously the highest point to fill up so far to achieve the direct cultivation for the champions league groupthink
Is called ... isn't universally popular in Germany I'm Keith ... explained because from the outside it may be a little bit more difficult to understand
Why yeah it's a I Would say it's a bit of the ... the Nobel often I'm most are playing in the
Second tier as devils are quite a bit of money invested that time which would be nice days actually Pina but by then it was quite high
And ah we have that issue in Germany that there is these fifty plus one rule to private investors companies cannot really ... and and
So called traditional bluffs old voice
And a lot like a thorn in their eyes are out of the reason is always was not so popular but you know things have shifted it used to be a little cooler than it used to be more food
Than it was often I've know southern live our life thick which always is more or less in the eye of the so called football romantic the flu always try to criticize
So no popular during rather well often I'm against Manchester City and other European Championship again later on today round them up for you on tomorrow morning
And look ahead more in sport today it's Eighteen searching GMT and we'll also talk about the first like matches in today's semi finals of the African champions league with I'm told us primarily got started looking to make history
There only the second team from that country to reach the last four of the competition I Know I got an inside has ever gone to the final
Say how students yes Esperanza champions from twenty eleven having no town the outcome guys ... in the culture is now security arrangements that much in low on to today will be closely watched
That's off the five people died in the number was injured in a crush flowing tongue tied with MSNBC there again today features to North African rivals as Colorado giants I'll athletes
Host Algeria zone ... chief or ... have restricted the number of friends who can attend became off for insulting chump change the Saudis sports minister Tokyo shapes prompted him to announce he was suspending his football investments in Egypt
I Wish I was four million of Vesta in a lot leap it fell out with them and put his cash into a new crop permits that see a lot of courage countries contract turned around that fortunes of the group stage of this competition for see how they get on to use on those games on focus on Africa tonight to a new state tomorrow morning of course I'm a babysitting [noise]
Homo Boston's largest radio news Rome now due to point seven WVU a to Z Barry eighty nine point one WB UH Brewster and streaming WVU our dog or W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR News station
Will come to the forum from the BBC well service coming up with me Bridget Kendall off to the news
On the program today one of the most famous female office of our age the iconic and flamboyant Mexican painter free to conduct a rebel who's colorful and poignant self portraits
Of any grain and popularity since she died it was sixty years ago in her lifetime she was better known as the wife of famous oh she is husbands' Diego Rivera
Now she's ... and have painting sell to millions of dollars
So was this female rebels who defies convention in state college an autistic style one of her and
But you also lived in constant physical pain that theme which she returned to again and again in her aunt I'll be joined by three color experts fashion courageous essay ... school to encourage each I'm Corey and all she historian or a on a badly so join us off to the news
Understood Macintosh wins the b._b._c. news of
Aid workers moving into more remote areas on the Indonesian island of ... the four days after it was struck by an earthquake and tsunami in one village the red cross said the bodies of mold and such students were recovered from a church in the city of ... food and water running short Rebecca ... is the
Way I think more nail a train track come into town as well as just a short while ago ... from the central government bringing in a situation in the hands of people here are being incredibly ...
Sitting under the tent in very hot weather that tensions have failed out is that on road not far from where I Am where people have seen the tank and what they need
And to a team that is now I and the ... floor fight in the air in order to calm the situation down
With less than a week to go before Brazil's presidential election a federal judge has released testimony potentially indicating two former presidents from the left wing workers' party in corruption John ... says you Maro
Authorized the publication of a plea bargain statement by the former finance minister Antonio Pelosi wrote Leno to Russia reports
Misstep I lost the accuses the former president Luiz ... Lula da Silva of off to science enough millions of dollars from Brazil state oil company Petro but ice to fund the successful electoral campaign of your mother says
She was later impeached for budget irregularities beset by last Lula are both in jail for corruption
Lewis lawyers have released a statement rejecting the allegations the accused Judge Moore of political bias they say that the publication of the testimony was stunned to harm the electoral performance of the work as a candidate on some of these votes
China's defense minister has expressed its opposition to us naval operation in contested waters in the south China Sea during which the Chinese warship force to us destroy to change cools
Ministry called the U.S operation to threat to China's sovereignty the foreign ministry in Beijing has strongly urged the United states to stop what it called such provoked his actions
The charity save the children says suspected cholera cases of almost tripled in Yemen's province of data since finding their escalated in June with the details he is now me greatly
Number of cholera cases in war torn Yemen is on the rise across the board but the situation in the western province of that data
Boudreau says it's health centers in the area have recorded a one hundred and Seventy percent increase in the number of suspected cholera cases that challenge he believes this leak pain cases Kevin's sites with asked strikes this summer which damage to sanitation facility and the will to station
Which is the world news from the BBC
The Colombian president even do K. has some regulations on the use of recreational drugs Mr decay justified the new measures saying Colombia faced an alarming rise in consumption Colombian law allows citizens to obsess small amounts of cocaine and marijuana for personal use the buying and selling is illegal
Germany's governing coalition policies say they've agreed on the policy to reduce emissions from polluting diesel vehicles without implementing driving bans in the worst affected cities or hurting comic is
Off the late night talks ministers gave no specifics same plans would be outlines later each fooled they'll combined traded incentive to get worse polluting cars off the roads [noise]
President micro has paid tribute to one of France's most popular singers show as noble who's died age not full missed them across it as a ... a
Company the joys and sorrows of three generations bone in Paris to a million parents ... ... more than a thousand songs ray hunt Dmitri cages reaction to Mr ... death you know I mean yeah
In the capital here of on people brought flowers too as novel square and lit candles the country's prime minister Nikola ... said that ... was a great loss for his country
In two thousand and four Charlotte's not who received arming yes highest national award the hero of Armenia for an outstanding services to the country that has never played an important role in helping Armenia to recover
From the Nineteen eighty eight of quake which killed twenty five thousand people and made hundreds of thousands homeless
An Eighteen year old worker the remote Silva mine in the U.S state of Alaska it has been killed in an encounter with a grizzly bear and her two tubs manager of the mindset of was the first such better attack
In it so do you use of operating on a multi Ireland BBC News
Welcome to the forum on the b._b._c. was service where we're discussing a woman who is perhaps one of the most famous female artists civil time
A Mexican painter who rebelled against conventional ideas of beauty and femininity and do you how to celebrate and laid back in time nation store is
How many self portraits are instantly recognizable and arresting dark and heavy broad woman hoping in bright Mexican dress with flowers waving into her staring straight houses the canvas ... some of the most coveted Latin American art the world has ever seen
Yes we're talking about Frida Kahlo in this program will be following her story attempt pastures colorful and pain filled life and exploring how current status as an international cult figure
I'm Bridget Kendall I'm joined by three experts ready to shut down on edge Mexican born says they had a stroke a fashion courageous are interested in feeders very deliberate pursuing an identity
Corners school to encourage a gun each on curry based in the United states and ... and ... story in and cultural theorists from the University of the arts in London will come to order view
Free to color was born in Nineteen Ninety seven in Mexico City Her full name was my dilemma common Frida Kahlo it comes out on since he was just a little bit about her family well and her father was
Born in Germany and he immigrated to Mexico and he was Eighteen
Then her mother was born in the state of well heck I which is in the south is part of Mexico she was a Spanish and Indian descent they they met in Mexico and they got married and it is in the blue house today the free that kind of means humor
That was the family her father was a photographer wasn't he yes as a young child she suffered polio ... sort of impact that house on huh
Well I think is in fact all her life and you will in fact her work deploy left her right leg shorten then the left leg she's starting wearing long scared from a very early age to hide her leg
Guinea ... what are your thoughts about free to call his family what was important for her legs development
We have to remember that when Frida Kahlo was six and she had polio it was a life threatening illness from very early age she was aware of life and death
She also says that it wasn't just a physical problem that one leg was shorter but also emotional the children locked her called her back to the ... which means peg leg she had to overcome
Difference and marginalization into being special she credits her father not just with being an artist and photographer he he was a self portrait tests for example so uh she learned how to create self portraits and she learned how to pose for photographs from him
In Nineteen twenty two at the age of Fifteen freedom was accepted to the elites national ... school just one of the few goes among two thousand boys unless you're focused on natural son says with the aim of becoming a doctor
Or you know this isn't the only Nineteen twenties wasn't it a very significant time in Mexican history can you just sketch in a little bit of why this was such an important
Time freedom was born in Nineteen or seven but she often told people she was born in Nineteen ten because Nineteen ten was seen to be the start of the Mexican revolution
Mexico had being just about surviving under the rule of the very old critic and dictatorial a leader of your ideas
Supposed to be I think Frida Kahlo allegedly says you have two accidents in her life forms the bus crash when she was Eighteen but the second was Diego Rivera because he was well known as a womanizer and once they go back to Mexico he took his traveled to a whole new level which is you do
Well he found yeah go having an affair with Christine are with free the sister this was for her was very hurtful it was a time where she felt completely betrayed and and it's a time where she is rethinking and regrouping
Or we don't have a free to call it you'd have the size of her and didn't she with both women and men including the don't suggesting Baker
And allegedly exiled Soviet split Ikle theorist and politician they own ... can you tell us briefly about ... what was he doing in Mexico and how did he come to be the couples guest in the late Nineteen thirties
Rivera had intervened with the Mexican government to offer a refuge for truck ski who had been fleeing from Russia for quite some time by that moment but they offered them the blue house as the place to say and they say that for some I think it was about two years they state that
Until they managed somehow or other to fool with each other and as you indicated a part of that was was free to having an affair with the ...
She pulled off him quite quickly I think I mean I think you could say that a relationship with someone or Gucci the American Japanese off as maybe a more important one at that time and then later with a Nicholas Mari but I think the the walls and element of
You had an affair with my sister I'm going to have an effect with trust because it's really
Got into an another three well no of course he came to a sticky and
Murdered with an axe when the Soviets came off to him but going back to free to ... these democracy is did results and extended periods of separation but eventually lead to divorce in Nineteen thirty nine nevertheless your leisure in Nineteen forty eight decided to remarry
As this passage from one of her letters to Diego shows he always remained her great now
I Know that only de Smet test ... since we had to call it lady teachers ... deep sea models Hastings we good intentions only ... percent flirtation
And data boats and you ... the early on does go to adventures without number ... ... genome doors implications insults yet we will all way No Child
Molester written from free to her husband's Diego Rivera now we've talked about the pain or Fritos ... marriage but by the end of the Nineteen thirties
Her work was beginning to attract attention and it's in right in Nineteen thirty eight she was invited to hold her first sort of exhibition in a New York gallery exhibiting twenty five of her work and you know gee but you know as you traveled to Paris
Where her work was featured in an exhibition organized by the leading French surreal is painter owns a restaurant or ...
What kind of success was having an artist by now I mean cause she live off her painting
Many of her paintings she gave to friends up until that moment I think the really the first time she got money from some selling her what to someone who she wasn't a friend who was probably to Edward G. Robinson the famous thanks to a doctor who bought four of her books or when he visited Mexico
... ... and his wife had visited Mexico at the same time as Trump's it'd be the ... and they were very from friends with ... with free to in the New Yorker tradition she had a brief aside with Julian levy the gallery owner it really did mix up the ... and that
That created quite often looks at this time in terms of how they got exhibited it was very much to do with meeting someone almost dinner and being invited to do something she didn't tend to fit the sort of mainstream idea of an artist who could make their own living even though that was something she really wanted to do with this new independent she was looking
For since the aside from her artistic reputation she was also something of a celebrity wasn't she um how well known was she won't she nine fool
During that time she was really at all for being the autographs wife she
In a book in a fashion context for the first time due to her looks in Nineteen thirty seven in American bulk she captured the many imagination of many many photographers that she met in the U.S and in Mexico
Was it just visually because she was ... to ... columns and she
I mean she she also appears in in time magazine Nineteen forty but the articles are are really about the Mexican women and like life in Mexico's housewife rather than Frida Kahlo
Overtime as her fame was growing her house was continuing to decline I'm Serious accident she taught as a teenager meant she was constantly in physical pain over the course of her life she had some ... she operations
And garbage in Nineteen forty four she painted the broken column didn't she sharing nails picturing her skin and choose streaming down her face so does this suggest that as time went on her physical condition and the pain that it was causing her was beginning to terminate her work
I think that she talks about pain but also in spite of the tears in spite of the nails that puncture her skin she has this story a club the suffering is always coupled with her extreme strength
To transform pain into visual art the first generation of colors callers
Talked about her as a victim both emotionally and physically a lot of people go through a pain but not everyone or no one has the capacity to transform it into incredible works of art that give visual voice to what pain is
In Nineteen fifty one she had ... surgeries on her spine and then in Nineteen fifty three her right like have to be appreciated for living a diagnosis forgotten green here her friend Raquel ... recalls the time she spent with her after the operation
... school
She was in her room in total darkness lying there with her leg amputated I totally depressed I just felt so moved us I've touched seeing like
Not look as she is she at what she did say was that she wanted to do away with herself after the amputation she really didn't want to Columbia than to have lived
For such a broken buddy would have been difficult even for someone that's such a strong panicked because she was strong and unless a person would have ended up with a nobody
Her friend ... recording time spent with free to following the amputation of her right leg in Nineteen fifty three what were you on that by now how fragile health meant she was more or less confined to but but amazingly she managed to attend her a nice ... directs the Beijing Mexico from her bed and even make an appearance political Robbie
Will actually in fifty three she was still documented as having remain a member of Communist Party throughout her life on how last public appearance just before her death was a demonstration against us intervention in Guatemala which she went to much against her doctor's advice so see
... ... who was a very close friend or free to
She on the gallery and she organized for us on the show really is full of show in Mexico city
Free that was confined to her bed and she said
I have to attend my opening and she asked to be carried to the gallery and there were all her friends and all the ... like waiting for her and celebrating her you mention that I'm ... lake but
She commission upper steady ... which was a red boots covered with these amazing Chinese embroidery
So she made us an artist a beautiful state like that then she describes that she could dance with because at the same time she suffered she also celebrate life
She ... she had fun she dealt with that lack in a way she would deal with her art and then her dressing her identity
Freely color died almost touching the July Nineteen fifty four in Mexico city she was forty seven in the lead up to her death she raped or Joyce fully await the exit and my hope never to return
But true to her invincible spirit one of ... paintings a colorful still life depicting watermelons said beaver levied a
Loan live life you're listening to the forum on the BBC well service where we're discussing the life some time at the sun boy into my comic Mexican painter Frida Kahlo so far we've discussed politics passion and pain that didn't spot her memorable paintings off to the news will discuss high rise to international fame
On her status as a feminist icon of the twenty first century [noise]
Distribution of the b._b._c. World Service in the U.S has made possible by American public media producer and distributor of award winning public radio contact eight PM American public media with support from ... a drawer payroll talent and time keeping in one unified system
Learn more at ... dot com grownups workforce
[noise] [noise]
From Boston University this is Ninety point nine W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR News station with the latest news and analysis or W. B.
R. dot org [noise]
Business traveler coal hastened the forecast showers in drivel overnight or is Apache fog lows in the mid fifties clouds Tuesday with the chance of showers highs around sixty degrees [noise]
Did not have the vote until after free the colors that those ... think about it she was very political but she couldn't even vote in Mexico during her lifetime a in this specific painting she shows herself removing vestiges of her femininity her braids her
Hair and she's putting on something that looks like an oversized men sued taking on the power and the authority that males have
The lyrics that she writes on top
Were friends how women's identities and sexuality is tied in with their hair and how there is no unconditional love of women only if they act in a certain way so I think in the a few small nips she uncovers the violence against women
And here she tries to free herself of this role of a woman who is subordinate to a man and shows herself as a kind of an drudge in this creature
So see all this attention to detail in this race so ... she says her body and the portrait to question but
The same time she's in some law school she's referring to is the Sophie queen isn't she referring to not just her ... use of self portraits but the way she shaped how she's deceived very deliberately
Did you choose she very constantly developed at the center for the Congress and the cameras didn't she
She did and um I Would say that in a in an almost universal I mean it's kind of society that is obsessed with tearing down the walls of their private self seeking to promote every aspect of their life of me doing Instagram and Carlo did it before you
Go into the oriental what's very important is to recognize how self conscious she walls
Of her image was something she constructed to self when you talked about why did she paint them stop ... it was because she was constructing this persona
That she wanted to use as a vehicle to articulate a thought she was not just free to she was the ... is free to kind of creating this image of free to
Through which to watch accumulate her work
Yeah and when you see her paintings I mean if ever I was saying when when you see her paintings you you feel you're speaking to you and she does I mean there's so many women she go next with loss of so many different levels
Will suddenly started approaches inspired many artists and musicians watching the world today he said African photographer attorney gum coined the cruelest girl in Cape Town to hear about ... influence on her work
The stories that I'm telling of the [noise] the has the story of the puzzle culture the young black ...
The black people in general and the African and then it speaks to the world a
Diversity I relate to a very well to feed a ... I was very mesmerized by her beauty very different very strong and bold and there's so much doctors within a pause
This head in pain but also there's a there's this happiness and then she's very proud and not afraid to care for what other people think of what I've always admired that in and for the fact that she uses off his subject is very admirable as well [noise] I
Treated freedom is free if our eat di da ... name and that would be me free myself from this confinement and say hey I'm yeah
There's also a little elements within all my pictures but this one is very predominant there is a very opaque pink background with floral details in the back with a
Green lush trees behind it and I mean in the middle ground and in the foreground as a figure a woman was almost the Chinese scholars blue Chinese gown she has a regular ... not just like to open in the eyes almost I'm In shape and then she has this very prominent union bro
Slept banging the Santa and I have filled nappy but she has managed to pot tips and she has a duty on with the flow Earl King protest taste with inhale which is the national flow of South Africa
She doesn't really speak to one identity but of course someone who is African can relate to have more than ... maybe someone from abroad could relate to her
South African photographer attorney gum sharing how cholera has influenced her work and she moved to learn how to start and approach has inspired people ranging from the fashion designers ... British author is Tracey I'm In an even female musicians Patti Smith and the doughnuts named but a few
I Know she continued to spot she's become a much ... dream
An image dorms fridge magnets T shirts key rings jewelry and even ... beer bottles
Oriented which make it was free to remain near
A capitalist Arnie for personal use uh
Pro talk quite strongly when everyone noticed that Theresa May was wearing a free to color bracelets and one of the parents is honoring
Mexican nauseous race look worn by leader person center right conservative
Exactly but at the same time there's also been a big controversy 'em over the last few months of about Barbie dolls bringing out of free to Bobby I started off thinking this is terrible
When I thought about it I suddenly thought well what to do stew with does they transformed them they dress them they change them when I was little like ... models have
I did exactly the sort of say college age ... yes you know and the idea that you could you could take you're free to do but actually dresser up in something else changed your identity I think would maybe ... appeal to free to she would be surprised to be the subject of a ... show would you think that's the
Only thing I mean she made her heroin rock does she representing herself in for Neal told that she will make herself I think you know we the Barbie doll you would have been nicer to have
Her physical appearance to make it just a little bit more
Like her like a bit more like ... work in a way that he's not so perfect because she was celebrating this kind of imperfections so in adult like this I Would like to do the abate morals that
Androgynous or you know the Mona Brower just because what she was celebrating its difference will
Do what do you think got it I think that everything is complicated about Frida Kahlo I think that given her communism all the merchandise and consumer society capitalism people making money off of her
Pretty ironic especially because she could never make a living selling her work however making little girls aware of Frida Kahlo and then maybe that will bring them closer to being interested in her art that's a positive thing
I suppose this whole question of making money on just her the merchandise or making it accessible and consumer friendly it does make you wonder how's how's she has some way been sanitized do you think August purses what do you think ...
You can go to a Halloween party and addressed is Frida Kahlo and no one will blink gets a young little girls a dress up as free during the same way that they dress up as Freddie Krueger boys I didn't know it is is how costume has become synonymous with um
A a sense of identification with minority culture but often without any understanding of her ... and I think the important thing is that if you're interested in free to you go and look at the paintings you understand something about what she was actually trying to say rather than what she looked like she just like the question
Doesn't it she's such a big figure in our age will she and her stand the test of time machine do or just as she's become so popular because she resonates with something today who she disappear again
While I thought she disappear in two thousand and five when they had the big exhibition at a tight modem she's on you become more popular and I'm looking at exhibitions now across the world of work that she's growing and growing in popularity she she doesn't seem to fit that moment but he's
A senior start our responsibility as scholars to to
To also come with new ratings and new ways of looking at her and the reason why we're doing this program today is because we are celebrating the the life of a an amazing artists that continues to be incredibly relevant today what do you think John eat
I agree with the Sears said that the relevance of human experience of experiencing confusion about your identity of experienced sexual orientation experiencing a the fear of death life
Fragile body growing old the the issues that she deals with music herself as a test case are universal our human issues
That are relevant to many of us uh her imperfections
Who is perfect you know no one is perfect who hasn't experienced pain or a broken heart
So she does that through the prism of her own biography but it's more than being Frida Kahlo she deals with what it means to be a human being I Believe she will like Rembrandt or van Gogh or other artists her appeal is ongoing
Yeah these are laughs ada [laughter]
Home of Boston's largest radio news right now do you do point seven WB you wait temporary eight or nine point one W. B. U. H. Brewster streaming W. B. U. R. dot org W. B. U. R. Boston's MPR news station [noise]
Pays hello and welcome to need to stay on the BBC well service would learn to pull out and meet James ... [noise]
This morning went back in Indonesia where the pressures on to help those ... by the tsunami hundreds of thousands waiting for food walks up released who's in charge and those are ... what is the latest estimates
Wait to see global temperatures can be kept for writing my older one point five degrees of this century will torture for my senior advisor to President Clinton on the issue but the the general election in Brazil this weekend we have a report from body off of homeland of workers policy
Matters in my survey comes out to about go save the women's side the inner cities around the globe will talk to a young woman living in one of the cities
Would consider this was the loss of Kampala Uganda coming out of the [noise]

Hello I'm Justine green with the b._b._c. news aid work as a moving into more remote areas on the Indonesian island of ... four days after it was struck by an earthquake and tsunami in one village C. G. the red cross the border is more than ... students were recovered from a charge
Food and water running short in the city of ... from what Jonathan had ripples
Across the shorter term the excavators poll impossible mountains of rubble to clear blocked roads and find them any of these sort of feel that
The citizen nearly enough heavy equipment here or enough security to deal with desperate and increasingly angry and habits and [noise]
Watch while police far in the air for the crowd
To break into a shopping mall flights coming into ... now repaired airport but there is little fine yet of the coordinated aid effort that the inhabitants need
Some news Justin and number of people now confined to have died in the devastating earthquake and tsunami which hit the intonation on into ... has risen to mould them one thousand two hundred and Seventy [noise]
Would last a week to go to full Brazil's presidential election a federal judge has released testimony potentially impacting two former presidents from the left wing bloc has policy in corruption
... Morrow authorized the publication of a plea bargain statement by the former finance minister Antonia ... see the another Russia reports
Mixed up I lost the accuses the former president Luiz ... Lula da Silva of off to siphon off millions of dollars from Brazil state oil company biblical but ice to fall into the successful electoral campaign of your mother says
She was Laker impeached for budget irregularities Luiz ... Lula both in jail for corruption
Lawless lawyers have released a statement rejecting the allegations their use judgmental of political buyers who say that the publication of the testimony was stunned to harm the electoral performers of the workers Baltic candidate on Sunday's vote
The Colombian president even ... has tougher regulations on the use of recreational drugs to decay justify the new measures sang Columbia face an alarming rise in consumption Colombian law allows citizens to possess small amounts of ... Canaan marijuana for personal use
Police now have the power to confiscate drugs found on people in public places [noise]
China's defense ministry is expressed its opposition to a U.S naval operation in contested will test and the south China Sea during which the Chinese warship forced a U.S destroy it to change cools
The ministry called the U.S operation a threat to China's sovereignty the foreign ministry in Beijing has strongly urged the United states to stop what it cooled such a provocative actions us Pacific Fleet spokesman said the American ship was conducting a freedom of navigation operation BBC News [noise]
Germany's governing coalition politicians say they've agreed on a policy to reduce emissions from polluting diesel vehicles without implementing driving bans and the worst affected cities or hunting carmakers
To late night talks ministers gate no specifics thank plans would be outlined later it's the though combine trading incentives to get the ... of the roads [noise]
The charge he saved the children's suspected cholera cases have almost tripled in Yemen's western province of data since finding that escalated in June when you to call for all the warring parties to stop hostilities ... has the details
The number of cholera cases in war torn Yemen is on the rise across the board but the situation in the western province of data it's been ... Graham save the children says it's health centers in the area have recruited a one hundred and Seventy percent increase in the number of suspected cholera cases
The parents he believes this leaping cases insights with asked strikes this summer which damaged ... facility and will to station
And you study from the Netherlands indicates that almost half of women on a set of men will develop dementia Parkinson's disease or have a stroke during their lifetimes
The conditions predominant affect older people on the lower rates for men is because on average they don't live as long as women there were such as say better preventative measures and needed to full story that condition
Let's security and the engine capital Delhi as tens of thousands of farmers had for the city they want to press that demands ranging from minimum support prices to changes in the central crop insurance game a reduced electricity tower is
Senior police officials had no permission and have been so for the protest more than half of India's population depends on the farm and for that livelihood and many are struggling with low innings and high debts BBC News [noise]
Back to that effect on everybody welcomes each day would learn and James hit a few minutes we'll be talking climate change hearing some scary warnings about the current trajectory we're on talking of scary we'll hear from a young woman in a city considered one of the worst in the world for people like her coming up on these days [noise]
We begin with the news just announced in Indonesia um the to the death toll has now ... are being raised to ... twelve hundred people that's the official death toll sadly of course that's expected to go higher even still
Will sixty thousand people it's estimated to be displaced from their homes in the area there'll be she correspondence and the main city of the disasters on says there's no drinking water and the power and listen to anyone in charge or the ... is a country manager Indonesia Catholic Relief services she has aid workers in how to
Our team found out and also reported today
That the situation didn't change since yesterday people already in Britain need of food or shelters and clean water a which is not available easily even our team will have to scramble to find food and water in that area
The damage and the destruction is quite defecting and people are still living outside in the tens in this makeshift and waiting for the assistance to come
What sorts of coordination are you seeing from the ...
The government or denies all the humanitarian workers in urbanization the corn solved and holding it with them our responses their quarterly would they have these according they shouldn't be thing going on and the response center in title
To coordinate all the humanitarian actors and just to make sure that all the ... are covered all house we're reaching the need
Do you think that people are being left to do a great deal for themselves I mean the stories and the pictures we've seen up so that would be heartbreaking of people trying to excavate their own areas to find their loved ones it's quite remarkable him quite remarkably grim an ... of people having to do a great deal themselves
[noise] um at some point up because it's so hard to get heavy equipment to that area
The search and rescue team mission is still underway but the situation is quite challenging because it's not easy to get access to those area without heavy equipment so the survivor and also the community work hand in hand
To help us much and as best as they could to find their loved ones to find that they've and family while at the same time government deploys all assets and all the resources that they could to help accelerate the search and rescue mission
How long do you expect your people will stay on the ground will sort of an operation is this
In the first says oh we are trying to identify the needs of the affected population where they are how many people can can can be supported by organization by also by the government
And then the next as we will be the early recovery uh and the construction but however given the scale of the ... the scale of the impact and the damages from from the defense or I Would assume that we need a longer term a long time
To do construction and recovery for the people that were affected by this author but ... says focus will be more on helping the people affected by the defense to cope with the current situation in the initial response face
Around arrogance rowdy in Mountain View of the silver [noise]
He was the son of a real life [laughter]
[laughter] well you don't want to say
Have you wondered money you're written river was
Above all of the far less well known
To a doctor [noise] you're a few weeks ago
And
Now they're handed they should have had to find what they do
Why are designed but you want to be free I Need to me about it on a lot of the country [noise]
I've never even heard of ... the written
Known it was thrown out
Well because I Know the whole you know like I Do
Yeah me too that many years the fact that the way social studies how
If you have to describe Fernando dodging ... words would you use
... as they don't know I cannot say much better and then he said [noise]
I've seen some recent six years I mean among workers from St Louis goes all the way up to the toll the president's with a with a team by us they just everyone around her and see us how
He talks less about in fact he doesn't read to control about the policy putting up a strong presidential candidate front and center into about presenting a project
For human ... he'll he'll we had a debate about this inside the party for quite some time we already knew that the Brazilian justice system would make new a political prisoner the chance that he would be allowed to run was minimal
However would we decided to do was to work on a project to make the defense of democracy the central issue democracy is just like a stump simple
Right but he has made it more difficult by waiting until the last possible moment you said that you were running with a project rather than with a captive but that's not how presidential election was
On the other side you've got this one very strong cameras messy candidates giant both ...
And then you've got this man who a lot of people say we've never heard of him to know who he is most films we make the decision to defend democracy of democracy you one final question
People always say to the election was bound to happen wherever it is and the well they always say this is the most important election we've ever had we've had for years and years and years
What do you really think how important he's this
Election new rescue Fatah amusing to some
For my generation and since the military coup in sixty four it is the most important election what's the risk is our democracy our values and principles with some ...
... I don't see I saw it from the work of policy ending that ripple from Tim ... in northeastern Brazil and let you know we can Tim will be posting reporting from real on the surge in crime
And also on the appeal of Jan ... Sinatra [noise] twenty four minutes possibly a big story which suddenly we'll be news to many of our listeners women of the story of quite how much harassment is in the cities the world which already planned international looked up to twenty two cities for ... ... they found that both the
... the most is the most unsafe cities
To sexual harassment Stockholm came out the best uh an interesting elements in the statistics and the table it was the Ugandan capital Kampala
The city where girls are seen most at risk
Of ... ...
... we spoke to a reader who's one of the young women who out campaigning for safer streets through a program which involves them doing safety will spicy they go through the area we identify local risks are what's lacking like street lights or a dangerous like abandoned buildings
But the biggest problem they say is the attitude of some men for ... twenty she makes money selling snacks chips in the evening by the time to travel because she spends a day looking after her kids she told me about her daily commute
To double I'd say sure is linked to a bank mankind is it it'll lead to you
Oh he knew what they have that you can bet you they you know if you're done what he had to lead them they can gain her ex ...
Late ... your your weight
Or you become what did they went you become ... or ... I I think well gee
What has happened to you and your friends we hear very bad stories coming from the streets of girls being kidnapped being raped do you know of examples like that
Yeah yeah me myself I'm On ... street so come by that one day when I Walk with my train why I'm working on they know that ... I mean
We may like ... years that's the way out for you not know cleaned up because we have you been seeing the light
When we met them they tried to attack I I suppose we meant that tell you what it is Kate ... says she was in it and she ...
And what what did the police say when you reported the attack
When we entered they asked me what I what I well yeah you get paid each like me to make you more being pro might go showered you're very young to move back they tape
Depressed that needs to have a ... a goat cheese and they know we did what they said that everyone will mostly they ... they may say well
How much my what I'm not ... I Hope I'm not an avid book you're making me much but now the book because you get paid the program that tape gorge that keeps my food
And you're traveling late at night because you're making money to feed you a little boy
Yes I have two children and it's not that old might protect she ... she left me they now they want to sacrifice or made sure gene
Tell us what you want the government to do tell us about the book that you do the safety will to to identify the risks and what could make things better
Yes we did they sift you walk in our area we didn't right they say if I sit next as we treated right near that to go it micro mini you need a break
We have now in the late ... gets to you know they'd be able to go ... maker immunity yet did they I mean they should include to go in decision making all the ... programming because we know what I think ... better than they
Would then they said they had the time when they pick fruit square in there and check them in the morning and evening but we're actually fit
Like watch much let you go in here we have too much and we'll be easier to unseat so company that you need in my late it's sad that all it rather
But if they do anymore we deal either again these tracks political pirate did they get a chance to setting up by the late give me ... you mean you don't ... well you know you're taking you taking up ... ...
It's a very embarrassing did they did give me she they step when I look great go the company that we don't know how great for sure
A surreal to Missouri to working out selling snacks on chips in the evening but suffering constant harassment on a journey to and from work and you know
Getting a cab will know 'cause you get a restaurant the cab driver was driving a so she's kind of cold and not and that's why she wants to change much he's taking part in the safer cities program thank you very much in day to her
Or adults or the French are or who was talking to us as well giving us some of those experiences which really should make men hung the heads ensuring freedom thank you and good luck on the trip to work tonight
Or this is you start with James I'm Lawrence will be with you again tomorrow so pleased to join us against the b._b._c. was [noise]

[noise] distribution of the b._b._c. World Service of us has made possible by the American public media producer a distributor of award winning public radio countered eight PM American public media with support from see three I O T
Addressing the world's most challenging problems that the convergence of artificial intelligence audio to the ... cloud computing more at sea three are open the door of a hard
From Boston University this is not the point nine W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR News station we're live streaming or W. B. U. bar dog ward [noise]
Educating her and telling her like I'm here for you ... your body you know you can do it it's just different Activision work we do in within the conversation talking to the woman so it's it's a lot actually I go whole holistic you just ask
What was your breakfast I usually asked my patients delayed have you eaten you because she sometimes for gets herself she has ten kids and she had been even eaten you know the season is just feeding maybe she was just to serve in more than twenty hours
A day could could you take us into your ... when a female patient walks in one of the things you've taken into consideration and it comes to like to think that I think for
My last eleven years since I went back home my view is completely change because I got my education from Russia and now you spent several years here but a couple of years in North Dakota
And you go back home with this western mentality of you know family planning this is what we should do and we push our patient as the paternalistic way of telling him what to do what's right
And one patient I had really she transformed my view and from that day on the way I see the woman in Somalia and how I interview and treat them it was completely change
I had a patient who came severely a leading in flood level was very extreme you didn't do in the condition in somebody we don't have blood bank so we have human ... so you need to call everyone who has the exact today that the blood and and draw divide so we
Six seven hours looking at ... and ... and she's good to go out a number of ... you cannot have the children you have to do you have to do this given all this patient education and I'm leaving after four months she's coming back again bleeding okay so she had another miscarriage yet
And that was so if you guys you know starting breach inherent you know you want to die you ought to do this and by the time I was walking away from her bedside she just hold my hand and told me you know I have six or for the children I just to get my second husband if I don't give him
A child he will just to leave and we will start
I was frozen and shocked you know this woman is just putting her life to risk just to save our children
From that day on I just my views become more broader start listening an approach my patient more holistically where they're coming from is not only being a physician who or training to what that turns for my clinical skill and wet broach
I went to come back to some of the other cases and challenges you face take all the first ones off skew point about your work focuses on the fact that men and women experience some diseases differently and of course for a long because most treatments were designed for men not women point is that well
Science has really been based on a very male model and that goes down to not only clinical trials
But the early ways in which we do research so if you think about the cells that we use we don't pay attention to the sex of the cells if we look at the animals we use in research they are far more frequently male animals
There's a real sense that using female animals makes research more difficult because they meant straight their menstrual cycle and that's the reality of women
So much of our science has been done on a male model
And even when the laws changed in the United states in Nineteen Ninety three to include women and late face clinical trials you're still dealing with the issue of the science on which the clinical trials was based being based on a male model
And can you give us an example of a disease that affects the two sexes different she
Sure let me just give you heart disease which I'm a cardiologist we
See and cardiac disease that women are more likely to have a different type of laying down a plaque or the hardening of those arteries in the heart that tends to be more evenly laid out across the vessel which makes it more difficult to diagnose
We now have the tools to make the diagnosis the issue is that we don't understand why we actually see that difference
So if you don't understand why you see the difference question arises do we have the right therapy and I think those are questions that need to be asked there are other disorders where we're just beginning to understand some of the differences in biology
Women are more likely to develop Alzheimer's women are more likely to develop depression why is that we're beginning to see some studies began to point to differences in the biology but not yet something that's actionable and I've only giving you a tip of the iceberg
But the good news is that we are learning these things but we still have a very long way to go
Now ... you were working in Somalia country that has seen almost two decades of civil war and up until recently there was no central governing authority [noise] one of the greatest Barry is to say just treatment for the woman and you'll catch everything you can imagine
Is there because when you're done ...
Where you don't have lost to follow you know the
Brutality happening to the woman his body and all the way they made to lead the way they don't allow him in ... surgeries
Because the man said so or because of there is a con deficient so if you're a woman and you're married from one client and you learn from other so you become an object of the
Rivalry between the two clients and they will not allow you to go your own house procedures to the woman oh effected by this plan rivalry
Definitely they affected in many levels but if things not improved with the new government [noise] not yet the whole health system is run by World Health organization the government is very poor did enough money to invest in healthcare
Still everything the focus in its among tuition and infection where we'll neglecting did diabetes and chronic diseases so it's still difficult it's still hard and one thing that
The health care was improved for the last couple years it's
I'm In school child spacing so that's the one area we got progress and we educate much mother is and we give the injection we have delivered all hospitals fee injection isn't and birth control pills so we're pushing on that site and I'm very proud to have those [laughter]
Point teasing translate you research into into biology how do you translate that when you're working in the type of environment that day covers describing
You're really thinking about whether or not only the disorders that diseases that affect women
But also what is the context of that disease
So for example if we were to start to think about lung disease
In certain areas for example in Africa and other places one of the main causes of pulmonary disease pneumonia but also chronic pulmonary disease or cook stoves you see what the end result is but how do you begin to understand and unravel
Not only what is the cause of it but how do you change practice and practices so connected to culture and to use those structures within a culture to change behaviors and that's something that doesn't happen overnight
Declare anything to add to that you're right it's just cultural change and also development change you know government to test to change its not only hospitals and medications you just talked about the stove housing
Sanitation plumbing old that includes the hell have been a better environment it
Prevents a lot of diseases
On the sports that making women's health the priorities are we talking about on the conversation today with Dr ... Johnson a cardiologist and women's health expert and Dr ... who together with a mother and sister when hospital in camp for many women and children who were displaced by ... in Somalia [noise]
Putting your ideal he's in has healthcare cheese
Pie in the sky because in most health care context it's not practical to implement such a nuanced approach we're not
Talking about adding additional resources on the front line
Although sometimes that is necessary what we're talking about is an approach of looking at health and health care delivery through a gender lands using the best science but also the best understanding of how women are leading their lives I Would actually call that really good medicine
As opposed to something that we can't achieve
They could do you think that you deliver the haves and have health care absolutely the woman needs
More time more listening more comforting because of the word role of men and women change so she's not only the mother and caregiver her own children she's also bread winner in the house so she has so much stress
You're listening to Ninety point nine WB you are from Boston homo Boston's largest radio news Rome Ninety two points on WB your way to his Bertie learned point one WB UH Brewster and streaming of WB you our dog or W. B. U. R. Boston's MPR news
Coming out fits well tax on the b._b._c. World Service with me Nicole and this week the program is coming from the French cold or a pack cafe in the Netherlands run by volunteers with sewing machines so bring on a screwdriver [laughter]
They're trying to fix all kinds of rank and stuff everything from rich genes to record players knock you've got something to stop working you can bring it in an hopefully one of the several volunteer repairs who's gulp and learn how to fix it up for the aim is to stop people
Throwing stuff away this happens all over the world so we're looking up with a similar event thousands of miles away from
India to repair a five minute ...
Spread around the world how they're trying to revive last auto repair
On walks if any difference that can make to throw away saucers join us in a few minutes off of the news from the b._b._c. World Service
Ingesting green with the b._b._c. news more than twelve hundred people and now known to have died in the earthquake and tsunami that hit the Indonesian island does to the way the on friday that bigger is expected to rise as such teams have yet to reach the most remote areas
In one village CGI the red cross that the ... the students were recovered from destroy charge
Meanwhile Feachem moved her running short in the city of ... from what Jonathan had reports
Across the chef at around the excavation poll impossible mountains of rubble to clear blocked roads and find them any bodies that are still laugh
The sort of nearly enough heavy equipment here or enough security to deal with desperate and increasingly angry and habits and [noise]
Watch while police firing the at first the crowd
To break into a shopping
Mall flights coming into ... now repaired airport but there is little sign yet of the coordinated aid efforts that the inhabitants need
Pennies in India of used tear gas and water cannon and clashes with tens of thousands of farmers
The farmers are demanding more government support including loan waivers on cheap electricity and fuel Jim Will get bring reports tens of thousands of farmers want to enter the capital for the final stage of that protest many of walked for days
Police that the knowledge was unauthorized and barricaded the roads leading to countries as angry farmers pelted with stones
The problem is say that is struggling to survive I Need more practical help with loans and costs the opposition than Dennis chief minister expressed support for them
It's the latest of many such protest Hoff India's population relies on the precarious agricultural sector
And feels excluded from the country's grabs China's defense ministry has expressed in opposition to the U.S naval operation and the south China Sea during which the Chinese warship force in American destroy it to change course the foreign ministry in Beijing so strongly urged the United states to stop what do you cope provocative actions
The U.S navy spokesman said the American ship was conducting a freedom of navigation operation
Germany's governing coalition politicians say they've agreed on a policy to reduce emissions from polluting diesel vehicles without implementing driving bans in the west affected cities all hunting comic is
Home to late night tools ministers gave no specific thing plans would be outlined later it's too though combined trading incentives to get the west village in cause of the roads along with subsidies to retrofit Sheena diesel engine and exhaust technologies
On Tuesday the transport minister ... said carmakers had agreed to ban most of the expense of modifying vehicles last year seventies German cities exceeded you at pollution levels
You're listening to the latest well news from the BBC
Any study from the Netherlands indicates that almost half of women out a set of men will develop dementia Parkinson's disease or have a stroke during their lifetimes the conditions predominantly affect older people on the lower rates for men is because on average they don't live as long as women
There were such as they betcha preventative measures and needed to full story the conditions
But less than a week to go before Brazil's presidential election a federal judge just released testimony potentially implicated in two former presidents and the left wing work has policy in corruption
Judge said Jim Morrow authorized the publication of a plea bargain statement by the former finance minister Antonia ... see you know to Russia reports
Last year accuses the former president Luiz ... Lula da Silva of off to siphon off millions of dollars from Brazil state oil company ... but I [noise]
Complain of your mother said she was late to impeached for budget irregularities you step I lost a little of both in jail for corruption Lewis lawyers have released a statement rejecting the allegations
The accused judge mode of police go by they say that the publication of the test somebody was stunned to harm the electro performance of the work is by the candidate will Sunday's vote
Colombia's president even do ... has tough and regulations on the use of recreational drugs is in Colombia faced an alarming rise in consumption Colombian know allows citizens to possess small amounts of cake and marijuana the past and we use
That money now have the power to confiscate droughts pounds on people in public places
An Eighteen year old ... remote cells in mind in the U.S state of Alaska being killed in an encounter with a grizzly bear on how to ...
... ... ... says he is on the island which has the densest population of bass in North America three baths would kill the state to pets arrived BBC News
Every year around the world millions of tons of household goods [noise]
Get Trump's away
Will constantly going forward with searched regularly for like ... like Cisco and things have got to go in there for a million bucks and went for
Everything from posters and had told him the tables and chairs do you ever considered maybe getting repetitive
Probably not nice but then I say I think God in ... to keep enough just to pick up the ones that will be easier to get rich
But how do we still read stuff going into the crush or could this be the also
Is a free ... meeting where volunteers ... ask for help people think of is broken
It's old school make do in ... but it's organized with an army of volunteers that spread around the
World it can be a broader solution to all the mon ching landfill Daniel
Was
Hello
And welcome to well tax I'm Nick hold on this program is and a wife to come in with each week we look at problems facing the will
To find the people who through innovation opportunism
Well maybe even acts to find a way to fix them
In a small town east of Amsterdam it's called ... it's in the Netherlands I properly ... solution it's only to the oldest mankind so it did it if something is broken well just go ahead and fix it the problem is you often at the time
The tools and the ingenuity and where I Am now has got older voters in abundance of an event called a RIMPAC cafe Trump focus runs this Rebecca by takes on a tour this was going on inside this room head now where are we
... we are at the ... which is the location of our monthly repaired cafe is kind of a community center right it's a community center where people are playing chess and bridge and so All right but that does that any civilians we open our repack I say we open our meeting where we fix
Stuff right so there are also table sits around here and there are people some of the tables and some people to bring stuff in the broken right yeah
Exactly um we have a host the ah that's where people checking
So when people come in to the table and they say go visit the boss you fix
And then we try to open my eyes itch register the person that is that is a a coming in and I can and then we will bring them to one of all fixes who I Will try to repair it together with the one
That is his name so he matched the person you have to go for it when it was someone who uh volunteer ... are they going to vote on his here everybody in his room awful it is required to have someone that is a candlestick
Silver or a candlestick Ron it's and cheek I think
Too much right well I think that's
So there's there's there's and then if we're going to have someone fixing a lemon [noise]
Okay so I'm just broken and sort of
Islam present to pause and and are you willing
As a very old one actually where I can I can give it up so I Do off the guy says they just go sentimental value from as an executive exactly run and you you don't know
How to repair yourself no no no absolutely not I Wonder why not I I Do have to let France rubber neck I I think you've been here before we had our junior yeah you're you're you're you know
So it's been interesting I think some people are bringing in bicycles as well
Yeah so we're we're both she broke Austin from a community center in in this town ... where are you actually in Bangalore
I'm In the basement of hospitals that's given their space do this with our cafe [noise] so this is runs in the basement of a hole in the basement of hospitals really that's interesting and it's a bright open space I wasn't expecting it to be quite this spacious and welcoming and I've got four no with me she's one of the co founders
Of soap or not I was actually I yes ah why did you feel there was a need for repair caffeine
Yeah in in in Holland we would think that's in India people would still have repair skills are we mistake on
The need for the fact is that because this generation of flip it is getting lost we're living in um a nuclear family and uh we're not seeing a A R people that are betting that owned us so that ... that is a need to bring this concept again yard
Debate is dating a gene for the genes of sleeping and I know that's why we need to make it if we need to open it up a vacant
Lots of repair business as an engineer anyway [noise]
There are many the bishops said this although this is also the pick of the bed there's a big market nearby it's at all on the corner
How'd you get away from harming other businesses you say you're taking a long viewed away from us [noise]
So in this back and say you have potential to better also sitting along with us along with volunteers [noise] uh so uh it's the first thing is that we are not competing against the professions are better they are not taking their business over his
His career my points to go ahead what we find there's obviously politicians of it is about saving the planet but it's also back saving people money
On what we find is that people in all kinds of the day
They can't afford to take something along to a professional repair uh
I'm guessing assessed than to be told to calm the retired
So what we do is we do at least the assessment for free and then maybe we say it is we're taking it to retire us so we take out some of the expense or on the person is going to the professional repair knowing that it can be amended but are we in RIMPAC cafe down have those countries
But I think one of the things that should change in the future do get to repair back in to our daily lives is that a professional repair she'd become cheaper and now for many people repaired professional repair is too expensive because you have to pay for the labor
And labor is sex tiny so we believe I Believe that uh the tax system should change and that labor or should be taxed lower so that's
A professional repairs have become more attractive in in more cases and that would enable professional repairs to run their business and um [noise]
I don't know of course there will be different labor costs in different pulses of welfare so what you're talking about that might have a different impacts depending on where you are on the planet [noise] after listening to have
One thing I wanted to talk about that I was you know for the solution to work at just the costs were alone people going out of their way to get stuff from ended in the first place I'm for whatever reason a lot of people just don't think like that as I found out when I paid a visit to a landfill thought the other day how about this one to the white water
Becomes to protect today and I'm Talking some topics I made a half [noise]
Throw this is the golden child was broke yeah yeah he found that ... you say totally broke and beyond repair all I don't know if he's he's still ... holes in the ... and he said well that's what I Wonder when someone could replace a missile POWs [noise]
They might be able to tell you and I believe in ... and just I just think it's just easier to get rid of it so they may they might have been up to is it is it the time as well during the time yeah
Oh yeah I've got whacked two kids that don't have to run and that's how people did right sometimes it's just not practical exactly
What's in it for the cameras stuff from cameras stuff you know when you put on a lens and the
Yeah um yeah that will be on the unfortunately um Georgia or point where they
Can't use because they got fungus in general things wrong with him so ... ... is that you could you right but there's not really much more than it was anything to take you to pieces and cleaning around would cost a ridiculous amount of money it's a perfectly good that now and then put when it's just that
It comes down to the fact that that were in perfect working order about twenty quit or ... or something like that I was a real ... ten times that much so you've got your your
Your legs and say we're going to put them in the world is is is Lois Lois has been no I've already been up for not looking good regard
We should really be doing things to reuse things but it comes down to practice county if does only says secrecy did
Um [noise] then you can hardly find people supplying the right to stuff especially if they knew something was going to be generally cheaper nailed equipment and he just by the joke [noise]
Southern a couple of issues are raised the I Wonder you know ... people have good intentions when it comes to this sort of thing but lawyers often gets in the way that she's busy I just don't have the time
Yeah obviously of people are pretty busy
The lady informed community of people around or whoever you conscious about this and vitamins that that saying bad movie get and sometimes we get ... just fun because people want to do that bitch in ah in their surroundings and so that the things they had actually being lord of the thoughts that things don't go to lunch and
Must seem I Wonder if you could kind of address ... some of the people here in this RIMPAC cafe kind of preaching to the converted they have a reason because now that already on board with the environmental movement without ...
How'd you get the other people have you ... the other people who as we heard from the people look at the tip you are quite happy just to throw stuff away
Well that's the challenge of course but we hope to get them into the repack I say when they have something
That they really want to hang on to win that when it's a fresh is broken object that cannot be so easily replaced by the cheap you type and we know that that's what happens when people come to say they don't really expect
Things to be read that but when
They come here and when they see that it can be done it really opens your eyes and I believe it opens your mind towards a more sustainable society
Political running show some time now for the ... cafe in a holding just still still carrying the people that are fixing a machine that pulled it ... it was launched Sean again into the workings of the device some final thoughts and from everybody ... Martina West is thought to be in ten Fifteen Years time
Well I think that will be more repack I faced because they'll they'll they'll be needed but we also hope that the manufacturers realize that that should be re parable and that they should be a produced in a more sustainable way so that they can be repaired in a proper way
Maybe you might have a three D. prints are in in RIMPAC cafe so you can principles bad policy to fix the things that you don't have the will stretch away that movie challenging but um maybe in the future you'd love that Christmas you
Oh yes I mean I think the future of RIMPAC face
Is as much around bringing people together
And I think coming to RIMPAC cafe yeah it does create a sense of community that togetherness it creates friendships I'm kind of slow people down for a little bit while they actually learn a little bit about more about that product somehow that can be amended
So I think it has a much wider road to play than simply connecting broken items with Paris hits it hits connecting people with each other

Much ... Tina I'm Petra hearing person to Chris in London and Chevy ... in Bangalore
Thank you for this thing too well tax if you want to see ... cafe in action and making a video from face so it it will be there soon
Will actually back next week for most of the nation from around the world but for now I'm all for most a clause in how to repair and electronic say this is a ... I'm going to get a hero's welcome from my wife and that comes back and fixed
Although of course there's no patches
That maybe that's the problem of course if it does get it fixed and I I'll shamelessly crime all the credit for myself [noise]

Distribution of the b._b._c. World Service in the U.S has made possible by American public media producer a distributor of award winning public radio counted
Eight PM American public media
Which support from see three I O T addressing the world's most challenging problems that the convergence of artificial intelligence I O T that elastic cloud computing more at the three R O G dog a ...
From Boston University this is not the point nine W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR News station where the latest news and analysis at W. B. U. R. dot org
Good morning this is Charlie coal have been the forecast clouds today with the chance of showers highs around sixty degrees showers and possibly a thunderstorm tonight temperatures holding around sixty
Be fairly apolitical whether ... for the first twenty or so years of our existence and the first thing that cool ma I was the debate over the ... and that is well started the bull rolling so campaign successfully
Against your own and then said nothing for a long time until the referendum when the country was given a choice like everyone else has to say what's the best for the future of the economy and for a company and decided to campaign that just ...
Right but I mean it's one thing isn't it to take your him stand on that particular question it's another just to get on your band that and to decorate your various pubs with that message
Well that's right of course there were a lot of other people doing it to a lot of the foot sea hundred companies signed a a lesser say will definitely be better off if we stay in a year
Did you worry about campaigning directly to your customers I suppose that's the question I mean is one thing to go on the media an unexpected
You know presumably fifty percent of your customers might well support staying in the I did
Worry about it I'd already done ... during the ... the euro era and the euro debate
And the way that I think people except to the is unlike say the Financial Times or the times of the guardian in a magazine which is where I wrote a lot of my aunts uncles
We had articles arguing the opposite of what I was saying so I think it helped us we could say we are and organize Asian which here's my view but we will print an equal number of articles with the opposite view
Right but the match the pretty one sided these days on the
Yeah the beer match you're right the ... are more one sided that they made the case for leave and I think people
Believe debates is required if you're going to make a good decision
On the debates is part of a democracy not everyone agrees with me all this late but you've got guys like Michael O'Leary is made his first campaign in favor of remaining in the this is the head of Ryan and the head of ... there
And I think it's been accepted that Michael O'Leary says one thing to him says another and it's such a big existential questions for the economy that I think customers Bruce Lee welcome the debate
The thing about breaks it that it was it it has become isn't it I mean a very divisive issue for many people sending for the people who feel strongly about it as he even just talk right now well above ...
Second referendum next year which would be even more divisive could how would you go into that
I mean again it would put you at all with a large subset presumably of your customers
Well that's right I think it might put the adults with the subset of them I mean ultimately a rule was said to them look at the end of the day this is your decision it's a democracy that's what it's all about you decide what do I know but I think it's democracies at stake under very important
Issues for for freedom the economy liberty and so on I think it's right that says this people speak out the public isn't stupid you know just cause I make the case for leave doesn't mean they they'll agree with me
Is there any sign that it's a tube of night
You know which I think it's a good sign for democracy
I'd be messes respond to you making the stand and and and making it public and making it a part of your public experience
Will investors or people of the highest principals as you'll be aware and share price goes up they'll stick with what you're saying
I think I hardly hurt anything for many investors there were one or two but a very small minority who complained that I think probably they were complaining 'cause they were remain or rather than the feeling that would damage the business itself
In supporting Colin Kaepernick or people started burning Nike shoes recently no one was burning went to spin spin that so they
Were probably some people who are a bit cross but no it wasn't this is the most loyal as the burning of shoes that's for sure if I ... no ... no boycott though [laughter]
Democracy and founder of the u._k. pub and hotel chain J. D. with us being willing to stand was a personal one
It is perhaps as nothing compared to the brand advocacy adopted by the u._k. handmade cosmetics company lush founded by a group of business people in the Nineteen nineties who are already active campaign is on various issues
Lush has adopted an extraordinary range of campaigns promoting things like conservation animal welfare gay rights
Things nothing to do with soap perhaps most controversial you they've attacked police operations ... offices I said to have said juiced activists in order to get inside campaign groups in Britain
Thanks [laughter] [noise]
Well that kind of painful by cops didn't stop and videos like this one defend them also put up a window displays and its doors with a mock up of a police officer in an avid uniform alongside the tagline paid to lie
Not surprisingly this has caused some outcry notice when the police but also Britain's home secretary the thumb since bank down on his campaign ethics direct to Henry James admitted a bit of a mistake that but she said the campaigns will not about to stop
Obviously we took a huge amount to a packed ... which I had a personal cost too often I stop trying it can't be she talked about in the u._k. Atkins effort that had been talked about before so I guess that in some ways we just have to view the emotional impact on us as collateral damage to ...
Have all kinds of campaigns not just that one of course campaigns ... animal testing
That trans phobia of fracking folks hunting nuclear issues plastic packaging the list goes on how does that relates to selling both products
Will be trying not to relate it to something past presidents because all the things they she said you just mentioned the things that we will cap I'm passionately ... before we became a company that made
Sense we were all campaign as an activist before we came up to ... and that includes the people who started lash so obviously there's a whole host of things that we will care about and we built a business that suddenly became big enough that we could use our shop fronts on our website to actually talk about the
Things that we were campaigning about in a private lives so for us that's a huge buying on those issues it's not marketing saying
Okay so this is all just heartfelt stuff it's not anything to do your saying with the commercial end of the business know how's it affected the commercial end of the business
Which that will when he first started campaigning publicly that we would never judge a campaign by its sales figures that we would never look to chew up at the same time because it would make you hesitate to have to win again so that little fact and we largely stick to it
As everything else you right now how is it affects your say oh I can tell you deal with it because actually surprisingly put sales up
So when the campaign people came to you saying that sales were up this was during the spike ups campaign that was getting all the negative publicity
[noise] uh yes yes during this microbes campaign and yet it wasn't a campaign speak but it was actually our accounts people came to us and you know made a phone call and said you know don't worry sales are actually up you're not going to believe this you know and hang on in that
Is that because any news is good news
I think it's because then you need is good news out I Would hope that what it was was a customer standing by us that they were really literally holding hands through it and saying you know it's okay with you we know what you do we know why you do it and we're going to keep shopping with you know we don't care if you mess up and we don't care if you mess up sometimes
I mean I I get what you're saying and I get the thing's a heartfelt and do you separate the two things I I suppose I'm slightly struggling to understand why you'd be bothered with even trying to sell soap or other products cosmetics if your campaigns are served as Britain have absolutely nothing to do with that I mean why marry the two in the first place
I guess we marry the two because we've built this huge brand we're on high streets around the world and it would be homeless roots not to allow the people that are working on the issues we care about access to that facility that we have been so you've got a platform but we have a massive platform
Do you think it is now we're living in an Arab perhaps where it's allowed for for corporate ... and ... to take a stand but he's more overtly controversial
I Do think so yes I think that younger people coming up care about the things they care but they used to talking on line to other people who care about them and exchanging information and I think they won bronze to be counted that
Would you like the Nike I mean like Nike and you and what you'll do would you like to see other companies doing more this activist campaigning as as part of the brand promotion
I'd like to see companies take a look at the world see what's wrong do something about it in the supply chains do something about it in the way they interact with the world as well as in the slick marketing I think it is more companies cat and actually you know ... to ... then a lot of us as consumers would be a lot happier
Say yes I'd like to see companies get involved
Here regions of lush here on business daily from the BBC so it seems being an advocate does not necessarily hurt your brand even if you're controversial
Last chance you can do it for this trip to do to China from National Geographic expeditions thanks a lot BBC is that
Were funded by you our listeners and by the holiday puff joined Keith Lockhart in the past for holiday music the traditional thing along and visit from Santa December thirty first
Tickets at Boston dyed orange and ... elementary they just like ... he has over a century ... elements national network
You'll probably have elements dot com
[noise] protests independent journalists and yet entered into all of the remaining fries joys and are fulfilled razor looting today's fries and our rent from your choice of a twenty ... provided by city ...
Years now that WVU our daughter will call one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to a seven [noise]
From Boston University or listening to the point nine WVU are FM Boston home of Boston's largest radio news rum Ninety two point seven WB wages were eight eighty nine point one WB wage Brewster and streaming at W. B. U. R. dot org told you that you are all students NPR News station
BBC News with human ...
More than twelve hundred people are known to have died in the ass quake and tsunami that hit the Indonesian island of some of the way the on friday
That's a good expects to Ryan's and such teams have yet to reach remote chance some and in each and residents have resorted to looting medical ... traveled from my past there and that sounds to ponder
The last two hundred kilometers into politics we had to be at school
Is it reports that cause going into the city was limited as mine Jay I'm not sure if it's fair to describe ... all the survivors of the natural disasters still unable to get hold of
Crucial supplies like food and water and if anything we was somewhat struck by the generosity of people along the way people offering is it fair to war to end the petrol even
Work has at the un agency for Palestinian refugees on raw I began to two day strike in Gaza in protest it funding cuts and job losses you and and now has more details
About two hundred and eighty thousand Palestinian schoolchildren have new calls is because of the two day strike in Gaza clinics and other services the agency provides also affected
Local enroll employees of protesting off the dozens of people lost jobs all had the working hours cops with anger growing the NRA has now with too many of its foreign stuff from Gaza saying it's worried about that safety
The agency made an emergency appeal to international donors off to the U. S. H. cops and says it's not reduce the budget gap for this year to under Seventeen million dollars
There's so many ... and ... say they see some of the assets of Iran's intelligence ministry together with those of two Iranian individuals one is the ... us id within linked to an alleged plan to bomb and rainy and opposition Ali in Paris in June the point with ...
The Nobel Prize in physics has been awarded to three scientists for their inventions and laser physics author I asked him from the U. S. you're on move from France and don't a strict in from Canada will Sharon's eat one million dollar price he's on science correspondent pile up goes
From supermarket ball could reduce computer disk grudge to printers lasers oppose every day lives
As as long as you do to the work of this year's winners of the physics Nobel Prize
Just ruins Strickland devotes way of generating high intensity and very short legs opposes which made with the technology to be used for many medical applications
Such as cancer treatments and always surgery [noise] took to skin developed a laser technique described as optical tweezers which as its name suggests it was a wave trumping bacteria and parts of cells using a tiny force generated by large world
News from the BBC at least
Thirteen people have died and dozens have been injured in the blast in eastern Afghanistan is the first major attack on a political rally since campaigning began last week for Afghanistan forthcoming parliamentary elections
Officials ... suicide bombers targeted a crowd which had gone to support a parliamentary candidate is unclear who carried out the attack
Union activists and opposition leaders have criticized the Indian government refusing to allow protesting farmers to enter the capital Downey as many as thirty thousand farmers was stopped by police if they tried to reach the city center police were pelted with stones used tear gas and want to count on
The farmers are demanding more supporters including loan waivers and cheaper and the diversity not as should take height president of the Indian farmers union that is members that are going to be hard
If you are and there's a lot of them were chosen by governments but we can't tell them about our problems then who do we tell do we go to Pakistan will burn rubbish India as an independent country on the farmers have the right to put forward the demands there's a large population of farmers
And if they have programs the government must listen Germany's
... minister undressed Scheuer says government incentives will take effect immediately for drivers to trade in their diesel vehicles to cleaner models which reduce air pollution
That just showing us at the comic has vote fog and the ... were willing to meet some of the cost to Fifteen diesel vehicles with Tina technology but BMW BMW was refusing to retrofit hardware needed [noise]
The U.S first lady Melania Trump was arrive for a two day working for the two in in a cry when she was met by her guinea and counterpart Rebecca a coup for onto it's her first don't put enough food country tour of Africa which also includes Malawi
Kenya and Egypt ... BBC News
Protecting independent journalism is important to all of them ... explains
What independent journalism means to me is going out to cover a story with the listener forefront in my mind making sure
That I Am answering all the question I think they are going to have we want to make sure that we're giving them as complete history as possible all of a new one I think they want to understand the full range of a story
We are making those decisions with complete independent protect independent journalism become a sustaining member right now your child [noise]
Give us whatever the news is worth to you and the way of uh
... is it twenty five fifty dollars a month you become a sustaining listener when you gave it do you say you are dot org or when you call the number one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to age seven
When you're pledged that will you be you are when you give to W. B. you are you're protecting independent local journalism as Martha ... was talking about a couple of minutes ago you're helping to protect the b._b._c. here on WB you are much more
Uh on the horrible tragedy in Indonesia coming up on the BBC following the earthquake and tsunami last week the death toll continues to rise up over twelve hundred
And as I understand that researchers have not yet completely reached the
The area of the epicenter of the earthquakes are only beginning to make their way there right now so that number is going to rise
The b._b._c. will bring you the latest you know how much you value the b._b._c. here on WB you are now give a little back pledge one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to age seven pledge especially since this fundraiser Jay Clayton is winding down
Yeah it's going to end on Thursday we've got about six hundred and sixteen thousand dollars to raise between now and then
That is the money that brings you the b._b._c. that brings you MORNING EDITION that brings you all the programs that you listen to here on WB you are in other words it is essential support for essential listening so we're just asking you to decide what part of that you're able to give maybe it's ten or twenty dollars a month for W. B. U. R.
Whatever fits comfortably into your budget has the right amount to give but
We are counting on you to step up and joined the other people who have done their part for WB you are we thank you if you have if not would love to thank you right now with a W. B. U. R. wind and water resistant dark side jacket from Charles River apparel
You give ten dollars a month to help us bring you the BBC and the other programs here on WB you are and we will send you that jacket as our thanks pretty good deal too because the jacket itself retail sir about sixty five bucks so it's a nice jacket [noise]
It's a nice way to support WVU are we are running out of the most popular sizes because a lot of people have already been on the phone and the Web getting their jackets so
We may run out of them are completely or at least almost completely before ten o'clock so now is the time to take a just a couple of minutes and support WB you are and maybe get one of those jackets for yourself
W. B. U. R. dot org ... is our website where you can give that W. B. U. R. dot O. R. G. and the phone number is one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven
You know and those conflict pretty sharp I just put one on uh the the example that we have here at uh the radio station right now I put it on a few minutes ago it's made
Out of that strategy a water resistant fabric it looks a it'll look really sharp on you and when you wear it proudly you'll you'll know that you'll be sending the message that you supported WB you are the other people out there who are doing the same right now the phone's ringing
I must say there isn't much excitement and people just don't know who millionaire Trump is so there isn't that kind of excitement that we had a window damage with coming in two thousand at night when you could say that the incitement above me show was almost as much as it was about to back
To people if they didn't know who she is to people remember her husband's comments about African countries being a ...
[laughter] no chance of it but if I'm getting that when I see people didn't know they know she's President Trump's wife endeavor that they don't have any kind of identity for hair
They know that they mentioned that the President Trump has not being very polite about African countries they know that you are taught from the day you are born you're kind of rude to distant is that then what you'd do above isn't this what about you
And that would that be an interesting thing for us to maneuver here but I think what else are willing to give him a chance to be have cells and no judge hit us the wife of president
Trump is there a feeling that the American first lady sometimes use Africa overconfident to to somehow burnish carrying credentials suffer
I suppose this you know if you set out saying that Africa is a place that you can find that in child care that is not being done properly and you
Can be such a graft with a crime babies that session there has your image as opposed to you I'm going to do that what the Africa One from America is not very cheerful we want to be dealt with like every other ... countries in the rest of
The world we want to be able to trade we want to be able to engage on the country to country basis
But survivor and do countries like gone to feel that this administration this Trump Administration doesn't really have a policy when it comes to Africa but it's just disengaged
You know we look on how we'll end with old time friends with Canada with Europe so when we are no surprise if they have 'em but the policy and Africa that's not surprising for us because
Long time established France and country and they are having difficulties
One final question or there'll be plenty of images photos videos on American media of this visit by Maloney at Trump but I just wonder how you would ensure that gone I got something out of this visit
You know what I Wish we didn't have to take it to the children's hospital I Wish some wallet tickets fashion shop we do a very interesting field in this place
And they could get it wet symbols ally ... he might get back in ... issue of like jackets ... led the ... the
[laughter] Maloney a trunk gun then ... the planet potentially
A [laughter] that light was a the rights or Elizabeth or he may speaking to me from Accra in Ghana you're listening to news outlets from the BBC ... that were
Funded by you our listeners and by Dana Farber Brigham and women's Cancer Center for all patients are cared for by a team specializing in their exact type of cancer new patients can schedule the next day appointment learn more at ... dot org
And icy creative helping you capture your audience and shape your brand through advertising design an on line and video production learn more at all the creative dot com
Mrs ... nine ... Jay Clayton here for a couple of minutes before
We go right back to the news on the BBC here at W. B. you are asking
You are as we wind down this fundraiser because it's ending Thursday asking you to step up for the BBC right now while you can the number to call to make a pledge at for the BBC in all the news you really love on WB you are used one eight hundred
Nine zero nine nine to eight seven or give at W. B. U. R. dot org when you give your protecting independent journalism on WB you are
And it doesn't take much a gift of a hundred or two a all at once or a gift of ten or twenty dollars a month or some other him out whatever's right for you the phone number again the punch line one eight hundred
Nine zero nine nine to eight seven or W. B. U. R. dot org into encourage you to pledge right now Jay Clayton we have a match on the tape but
We have a match thanks to some members of our ... our society who are going to add
Fifty percent to any amount that you can give the w._b. you are right now to do just what ... said protecting independent journalism thats what listeners support does and Ninety five and a half percent of the support that it takes to bring WVU Aarti you every day
Comes from our community and that's why it's important for you to do your part whenever that may be and it's worth fifty percent more now through ten o'clock only if you'd call one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven
Take advantage of the match for the Mars Society again the number is one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven and the matches also for you at W. B. U. R. dot O. R. G.
Do it before a do it the pledge that W. B. you are right now give it to do would you be you are right now and you're in on a trip to China that we're giving away National Geographic expeditions
Is going to lead a ten day long trip to China for someone who wins it this is the last day you can get in on the drawing your last chance to get in on this drawing so take two minutes right now in ... because you're going to see some uh
A terrific spots Tiananmen Square the Forbidden City a part of the Silk Road the terror caught a a warriors that are in she on a you'll see the giant pandas as well but again it's the last day last chance to get in on that trying
And take advantage of this match right now that we have on the table when you do your part for the news had one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or give it W. B. U. R. dot or you
Independent journalism really means journalism that is not pressured by commercial interests are political interests
It is listener supported and that's what makes it free of those pressures so that's why it's important really to step up and give what you can to WB you are no better time to give them when you get a chance to win that trip to China that Bob was talking about and when your contribution is worth fifty percent more
Thanks to members of our ... our society fifty percent on top of whatever you're able to give so
Think about what you can do five or ten dollars a month if that's a comfortable amount for your budget that's what we're asking you to give if you can give a bigger gift say a thousand dollars that would turn into Fifteen hundred for WB you are for the news you count on a ...
Learning to Seventy five hundred dollars a ten thousand dollar contribution would turn into Fifteen thousand dollars
Only until ten o'clock this morning just thirty three minutes to go
On this quick matching opportunity this morning for you to take advantage of
As you support WB you are and do your part to protect independent journalism one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven is the number to call one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to heat seven or W. B. U. R. dot org DiMaggio only until ten o'clock get in on it now
And thank you so the match ends in about thirty minutes your opportunity to enter the drawing for the trip to China the ten days in China with National Geographic ends at the end of the day the fund raiser closes out in a couple of days on Thursday
Why not take the moment now you need to pledge no just two or three minutes that's it and one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or W. B. U. R. dot org now's the time for you to pledge right now nine twenty [noise]
This is ... is with these on life from the BBC has his Nobel Prize in physics has been awarded to three scientists from the United states from Canada
... ... and ... on a strict than the groundbreaking inventions in the field of laser physics ... for most of the University in Canada and certainly the third woman to win the award alone with Marie Curie one in Nineteen Ninety three
American to put a man who was one of the prize in Nineteen sixty three minutes before we came when I we managed to get through to profess a strict ... did you respond to a fine I Am ... thanks you become a Nobel laureates
Kind of crazy
Or anything from these things sometimes come right out of the blue then they
That's right I mean yes you're not expecting it and I don't know that anybody would be expecting the Nobel Prize
Can you explain to our listeners I mean ultimately specially when it comes to the ... process can be complex can you explain a you'll work for us
Well I guess the beauty of that is so simple it is the fact that people want to get high intensity lasers but if you want that in the high intensity actually destroys the laser itself
That's available as our thanks for your ten dollar a month contribution that also gets match but we don't have too many of them left the most popular sizes disappearing quickly so before you miss out if you'd like to get one is as thanks for supporting WB you are [noise]
Go to W. B. U. R. dot org or give us a call at eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven
You know when we started offering those early this morning the jackets from Charles River apparel they're really cool there a sleek looking there that black polyester in spandex so they've gone a little stretch when we first started offering them
We predicted that the the popular sizes wouldn't last long and the U.S that uh is actually what's coming ah coming
Coming up now because we know that uh you know some of them are just not going to last the other thing that's not going to last
The the the fundraiser ends on Thursday the trip for two to China National geographic expeditions if you want in on that you got to get in now because the drawing for that is later today so instead of ... are taking any more time give right now before your opportunity to enter that expires and the match
The fifty percent match that adds fifty percent every pledge expires at ten o'clock this morning less than twenty minutes ago the number to call the pledge to take advantage of all this is one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or give it do you say you are dot org
And why should you give it all will keep in mind that Ninety five and a half percent almost all of the funding that brings you to BBC that brings you want to point it brings you MORNING EDITION
In other words the support that brings you everything on WB you are the count on that support comes from our community and as part of that community it's important to do your part because listeners support
Is what protects independent journalism it's what keeps independent journalism here
On WB you are so now's the time to do your part eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or W. B. U. R. dot org another update on those jackets Charles River apparel
Bob I Am told we are completely out of the extra medium [laughter] the the the extra meeting okay we never had any but until we are going to run out of the size you want if you don't get in on this quickly
Especially if you're right in the middle you know you you know the popular ... you're the popular size get in on it now take the jacket away before the opportunity ends only Seventeen
Minutes left to go between now and ten o'clock the match
Ends at ten o'clock fifty percent added to every fledge thanks the generous listeners who know that
Ah the news is important to them and they know the news is important to you on WVU are so they're encouraging you to get right now by making your pledge an even larger than it would be normally that hundred dollar played worth a hundred and fifty for the news to
Two hundred dollars worth re hundreds of the news if you give us ten dollars
It's worth Fifteen dollars a month for an entire year take advantage of it the one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or give it do you mean you are dot org nine forty three Seventeen minutes left in the match [noise]
Listening to these are from the BBC objects Menendez after a series of far reaching corruption scandals still ongoing and affecting all oh Jesus said or say that Brazil's body politic
Is in crisis right now which is one of the stakes couldn't be higher ahead of Sunday's general election when you asked him Frank says travel back to set the scene for

This is the old town and it sounds a door in the northeastern states it by ear
People here have a reputation for being some of the most late banging
Easy going in the country and having some of the band music which for Brazil decent saying something
And here's another ...
There's an argument to be made that the elections in Brazil and the most important in the western hemisphere this year this country's just says he is that's ministry dictatorship democracy is vibrancy is not a given
To that but we're also talking about one of the biggest economies in the world in Sunday's vote really is a big deal [noise]
Very traditional to lessen
Wondered why the hell residential farm bill
Two years ago
Around there is probably not view of the silver [noise]
He was in the president's ... I mean what are the size of a reelection
But it is yeah he was well here in Britain will grow up [noise] on not charging more to say
Have called either working for the rich should only have a river vitamin candidate for
The phone all counted out far less well known
But I Do not you you're a few weeks ago
Really and also send your religion
Candidate and he said the same time you can find when they didn't
Understand that you want to be free and you think he should be allowed to put on a lot of the country [noise]
Have you ever even heard of Fernando ... the written that [noise]
You know it was not
Well me and I know they don't know my dad you might hear why having that many years he wasn't that bad but when they tell me to pay social studies how he
Let alone that we knew that if we could wait who said she would include in his place a little less place
If you have to describe Fernando ... would would you use
Economic arrest them if they don't know I cannot pay much better and his mom I Will say threaten their wife or the other than that
That absence of reasons to share some even among workers policy Lewis just goes all the way up to the told the president of the worst team by state to everyone around noon see us how
He talks less about in fact she does need to control about the policy putting up a strong presidential candidate front and center he talks about presenting approach
To fighting the ... we had a debate about this inside the party for quite some time we already knew that the Brazilian justice system would make due to political prison the chance that he would be allowed to run was minimal
However would we decided to do was to work on a project to make the defense of democracy the central issue or the ...
Just like a stump simple right but he has made it more difficult by waiting until the last possible moment you say that you're running with the project rather than with the candidate but that's not how presidential elections work
On the other side you've got this one very strong charismatic candidates jayapal Sinatra
People say we've never heard of it to know who he is
Most symbols we make the decision to defend democracy of democracy and
It's interesting to hear you too because you talk about ... obstructions you know talking about the candidate to what do you think of an hour to attach
A ... he wasn't the best place person to run in this election he lost when he ran for reelection is now how powerful but he is committed to the Workers Party ideology and you have to technical knowledge needed to run a government
Do understand that there is a lot of anger and disillusioned with the P. T. because of corruption because of crime because of the worst ever recession Brazil has been deal while use of being in power
Seem
Like you get ... miles
Yeah I'm not saying we haven't made any mistakes but we're not responsible for corruption in Brazil this accusation that the ... cheese a corrupt hockey doesn't stand up with a it was only orchestrated by the media to kick us out of power politics in Brazil until twenty sixteen
Was find them by companies and that meant hockey's without any hypocrisy had accounts to funnel money into that kind of have this was a mistake and to the tea also took part in that game that they sell the
Oil neutral one final question people always say to the election was bound to happen wherever it is in the world they always say this is the most important election we've ever had we've had for years and years and years
W. B. U. R. FM Boston home of Boston's largest radio news from ... to point seven WB you a temporary eighty nine point one WVU wage Brewster and streaming at W. B. U. R. dot org W. B. U. R. Austin's NPR News station
Is four hours GMC they see the news for him from the BBC will service with Joe ... survivors of friday's earthquake and tsunami Indonesians need help fast and that can hear the cries of though still trapped beneath the rubble
We're in a crisis we had nothing Raul basic needs food ... we desperately need and
The U.S and Canada or to pay to have reached a deal and then after that free trade agreement Macedonia the government has lost the referendum to change the country's name will explain what's at stake the arrival of sexism at the world famous ... well one of Donald Trump's closest advisers say she's a ... sexual assault and
If you ain't into prison
The desire to get out of it diminish it'll grow and we will be the only person that that will want to escape
Evoking the Cold War to describe Britain's exit from the e you leave some real victims of oppression very unhappy that she's the newsroom

Hello Romeo Nunez with uh BBC News the United states and Canada have reached a last minute deal on the north American free trade agreement or NAFTA to ensure it remains a try not to all packed with Mexico details from will grounds
Just before midnight deadline which time the Mexican government is due to present the details of this new bilateral trade deal with the United states to the Mexican Senate
Agreement was reached with candidates to on several outstanding points in effect that save an actor and its presence state has a ... agreement between the countries in North America
In particular that Canadians relented on a deal to commit us dairy producers access to that domestic market one time they received protection from us and that the ...
Confirmation of the daily began to repair from governments who says come over three nations within that to renegotiate set for the incoming Mexican administration has this yeah they want us to confirm that deal on his Twitter account
Emerging from a late night cabinet meeting the Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau told reporters it was a good day for Canada um but gave no details
Indonesia has called for international help as it scrambles to get food aid and heavy equipment to central ... which was devastating to the bar in friday's earthquake and tsunami numerous aid agencies are on standby to help
So you know some of them is the chairperson of save the children international in Indonesia
They already forcing children law on the street and looking for their rather than our immediate fire and he said that it's also for skiing and make sure that their health and the ... the faster and also to the ... family checking them that we will just say their identity the ball
And look for his or her family in the hills and shelters that the government has put out
More than a hundred people are confirmed dead
Iran's revolutionary guard goals as it has on several ballistic missiles into eastern Syria striking the ring leaders of the recent militants attacking the uranium to ... it's in a large number of terrorists had been killed or wounded in the east of the Euphrates River
Uranium state media showed pictures of at least three missiles being launched
The un special envoy for Yemen mountain Griffiths says called for an urgent international action to stop the world's worst humanitarian crisis deteriorating he said he was encouraged by the UN's warning of a looming from him
But I think it was incredibly important for the UN to issue that warning in good time but it tells us something profoundly worrying about Yemen which is that
Situation in which is already the worst humanitarian catastrophe in the world can only get worse for me as a mediator it means that I Need to get even quicker to get the policies are on the table
News Macedonia is pro European prime minister ... of has vowed to press on with a parliamentary votes to change because of his name do more Macedonia even though some this referendum fails to give him a clear mandate
Greece which has its own region of Macedonia objects do its northern neighbor using it so that remains committed to dropping its objections to you and major membership if the main change goes ahead
Hundreds of thousands of independence supporters are expected to demonstrate to go to Spanish region of Catalonia later on Monday Monica years since the regional government defined Madrid by holding an illegal independence referendum
That resulted in heavy handed police action to stop the boat in recent days Madrid has offered to cast a lens the chance of a referendum on ...
Oh ... ... troops from ... to remove some of them more than a hundred thousand lines to to be buried under heavily fortified border remove was one of a confidence building measures agreed to bumper to Korea leaders
In last last month in your own yard ... term border there's money to do two years
The government of march ... has announced plans for account ministry achievement is ... drawn so that would allow increased funding for the protection of girls which many Hindus regard as sacred and sundry descriptor
Mr to hunt belongs to the ruling B. J. P. which champions of vigorous film of Hindu nationalism and observers say he was just trying to reach out to his political base ahead of the forthcoming state to send the elections
Because they don't spend came days off to the local head of the opposition Congress Baltic coming out ... and ... village of his body one many Hindus consider the holy animals and co protections strikes a chord with rooted vote is the world ...
Hello and welcome to the news room on the BBC will service with Joe ... um we go to Indonesia for sweat relief efforts are being stepped up
To help the country in the wake of the devastating earthquake and tsunami which so far killed mold an eight hundred people president joke could we do to has been seeing the damage for himself ... that's one of the worst hit areas on the island of silhouettes see
An appeal for international aid has been made and silent on Australia both that help and they come come soon enough with a huge shortages of food water on medicines desperate residents have been run sucking shelter supplies
Right not to read [noise] we don't have any other choice we must get seen
We're in a crisis we have nothing from basic needs food moose we desperately need them
On their own reports to people who are still trapped on the collapsed buildings the national search and rescue agency chief marriage so you said in some areas conditions were still unsafe
So people would be dangerous search teams go in there because we're still having aftershocks I really hope the local government will be able to get us heavy machinery
With fish that the number of dead could now rise considerably questions being asked as to why people would given back to warnings about me in the first places the Reuters reports that can you Priya ... explains
A lot of anger at the moment toward the we hear a logical agency
Which issue that's not in the morning and then lifted it within thirty four minutes and that was just around that Dr either just before just after the kids and it's actually because the communication I thought if they only had a bad
Sense that they were getting
Which really center that was two hundred kilometers away from the city
And that only recorded a very small fix sending away once that passed it lifted the warning and they said that was the best information that they had available and they made their decisions based on that day that the way that actually hit follow and the surrounding areas or up to six meters
... Jason how many of two thousand and four engineers
They put a lot of effort and money into installing sitting out in the morning sensors around the country but a lot of that when when something like this happen a lot of them are found to not be functioning so that there has been some oversight and there is anger towards certain already
Now see Macedonia which is still cold Macedonia despite the efforts of the government to persuade voters to rename the country as a ... year in a referendum which took place on Sunday the proposed change was designed to end the decades old dispute with Greece
Which has been blocking must have known as ... to joining both the European Union and they so
But that may have come to an abrupt halt result ... corresponding guy deal only reports
The result is a significant play for prime ministers ... he'd made the name change his top priorities since taking office last year
But the nationalist campaign to boycott the polls rather than ... know just be devastating new successful the low turnout means the referendum isn't binding the mis design I've said the boycott wouldn't derail the deal with Greece
Portugal I'm leaving aside the organized voice caused by the opposition I expect the huge majority of the citizens who voted have chosen the European ... [noise]

Supporters of the boycott campaign held a policy in front of the national assembly they said they stood up for Macedonia is right to self determination
[noise] well I mean and it it can't look at it I think you would call me
If I can imagine in happy I became quite look let me let me look at non white sauce our job
As a white chicks each year that
Johnny thank God why each side and get
On the street trying to get people outside the home to get them off just shocked to fight that
Fight a lot but
... says very distressing that from the sounds but just briefly all shortages of food to medicines really affecting what you can see around you
Actually look old and I felt that the fly on
A couple of racial things
Like that while the only
Way I think that something like that show it will take the
Money to always saying to a ... license to the west than apologies for the call a sea of the line
Now Yemen counts how much more or less the message from the un special envoy to the war torn country militant group is
On the special concern about food supplies with charities working in Yemen saying that more than five million children that are at risk of farming because of the ongoing civil war but Mr groceries told the BBC that though they she could be prevented peace talks could begin he spoke to achieve international correspondent least you said in New York
Well let's just hope we don't get the because I think between now
And the day when feminine does the erupt in Yemen there are things we can all do just that happening so I think it was incredibly important to the UN to issue that warning in good time but it tells us something profoundly worrying about Yemen which is that
The situation in which is all ready to was to monitor and catastrophe in the world can only get worse
For me as a mediator it means that I Need to get a even quicker to get the policies are on the table
With your mediator with the problem now because you try to hold talks in a in Geneva in September and who's he didn't show up
No they did it wasn't the week we had planned to be honest I'm I've been back to ... cents on TALK to the leadership they'll throw the leadership about what needs to be done to get them to talks next time consultations which we hook to convene within weeks
And I think we're working out the ... of needs to be resolved
Has this warning about the prospect of famine concentrated minds in the capitals which count which include London Washington Paris Riyadh and tear on all of the outside players involved
But I think they will care and that's really not a well it's not enough and they all want this to happen for whatever reason
I think the the essential reason is your income take much more of this will the threat the prospect the worry is that it can get worse and that's the prospect which is almost unimaginable in Yemen
But if you will we heard from President Trump speaking in New York that actually the situation in Yemen is improving as he thought many saying that unless key players like the United states and Britain get behind this push really get behind his push for political solution to stop the war it's not going to happen
What will not be helpful is if the people have Yemen who have been given negotiations to stop it than their mothers to come together to discuss it
My focus is on the Yemeni negotiations of course it's essential that the members grow to counsel you mentioned to the
Uh to their responsibilities seriously and in my view they do a very active on this issue in terms of persuading the policies to focus on on negotiations I have no quarrel with their actions
And on the other side duties continuing to fight and provided with ministry sport not just by Ron ... reports say by Lebanese he's been our fighters who've come from Syria
I've heard those reports I have no reason to doubt or confirm them it's not my business in part to do so my businesses to punt agreements which takes away from the need for such a assistance [noise] ah so ah if they're true there are alarming or they may not be surprising
But it's something we need to move away from
That was un envoy most ... speaking to the BBC's least each that [noise] you know to South Korea were to remove the hundreds of thousands of landmines buried in the demilitarized booted between the two countries is one of a number of measures agreed upon when president moon and came gentleman mentioned pee on young last month
I was also correspondent Laura ... reports
It's thought there and eight hundred and sixty phase in landmines along the two hundred and sixty Columbus temple
If not years of flak for the next week on the engineers starts in what is known if a joint security area we most of the ... they based their sweat eventually like both sides have more feely
Mindful also be creationists lightning when I had ranch hundreds of so just about killed and intense fighting the war that you can be as one to excavate the site and identified inane
Stocking gift wet so soon after president named the tanks and his summit with Kim Jong un and killing young will build confidence between north and say if they try to be you know the tensions along the border
Now Neal has civil the stories from on his desk
Terms of thousands of supporters of Brazil's for a ride presidential candidate John ... of march through the streets of cities across the country a week ahead of the election the biggest demonstration was in Salt pond where his supporters shocking slogans against corruption and mainstream politicians
... is leading most opinion polls with just under thirty percent on Saturday women lead demonstrations against his candidacy
To people who have been killed and more than a hundred injured after a powerful typhoon struck Japan typhoon draw me made landfall in Sunday near the western European soccer the storm caused widespread disruption with many flights and trains canceled their million houses are without power
And Iraqi ... two major political parties of accused the job of electoral fraud wandering Sundays parliamentary election nearly eight hundred candidates
For for a hundred and eleven seats in the first parliamentary election in the semi autonomous region since during the Philippine voter turnout is reported to have been modest
Thanks to nail now some of the world's leading climate scientists of aging and South Korea this week to finalize a report on just how to keep global temperature from rising Bible the will point five degrees Celsius the ... century
Members of veins governmental panel on climate change are expected to will ... the world has already warned by around one decrease in the Eighteen fifties
And it's so close to exceed will point five degrees by twenty faulty a less some kind of rapid action is taken many low lying countries in particular fit that into dissipate under the safe if not limit is passed on environment correspondent ... as the details
This report said to be the most critical and controversial study on climate change in recent years
It's critical because PCC scientists say that without rapid cuts in sealed to emissions and the switch to renewable energy
The chances of keeping temperatures from rising more than one point five degrees will disappear the study will be controversial because it also suggests the use of unproven technologies to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere these efforts will be worth it said researchers
As it will save millions of people around the world from rising seas but first the scientists have to convince representatives of most of the world's governments that their conclusions sound
There are concerns that some of the major fossil fuels producing countries will do their best this week too watered down the report's conclusions
You'd be listening to the news room on the BBC will service which might not a soul mate news Indonesia has appealed for international help is that response to the devastating earthquake and tsunami on silhouette say and the U.S and Canada a report you reached agreement of reforming the ... free trade agreements they say if the BBC in London

Distribution of the b._b._c. World Service in the U.S has made possible by American public media producer and distributor of award winning public radio content
Eight PM American public media with support from see three I O T addressing the world's most challenging problems that the convergence of artificial intelligence I O T that elastic cloud computing more at sea three I O T dot a high
From Boston University does is Ninety point nine W. B. U. R. Boston is NPR News station we had live streaming at W. B. U. R. dot org [noise] this
Is Charlie goal Hayes and sports a Red Sox ended regular season played with the tend to to land on the New York Yankees Sunday at Fenway Park the patriots beat the Miami Dolphins thirty eight to seven vox borrow
Even failed early Monday morning I remember very clearly on Wednesday evening being still at the office calling home and saying please go pretty cash machine and pull out the maximum cash we can which was about five hundred dollars
And I was asked why and I said they simply I don't know whether the banquet opens tomorrow
The global repercussions immediate ... economist in senior you an advisor
It took a very very short period of time for the crisis to spread throughout the entire world economy
And the image that most of the leaders had in mind was that we might be entering another Great Depression I think in a way they're panic
Was over done actually because reacting to panic by more panic is not necessarily the right way to do with the Franklin Roosevelt had a different idea
On march fourth Nineteen thirty three when he said
Let me ask my belief that the only thing we have the fear was asked
ISIS that started at the heart of world capitalism on Wall street itself or so that have made it even more frightening because Wall Street has are not very frightened when terrible things happen to poor people but they're very frightened when bad things happen to rich people
The extraordinary thing about the financial crisis is that had happened in finance is this is the most sophisticated
Of the global international system's a central banks in treasuries are the elites on national civil services the jumps in these institutions a highly sold off to
Go to the best candidates they have lots of data and the other most powerful positive government because they controlled bunch of some money
At the ... is a seemingly very clear mission financial stability the same is true if the global level with the international Monetary Fund the IMF
Is the most powerful most skilled and best paying of international institutions its mission to his financial stability so how many thousands of experts getting so wrong and allow this to happen
Why didn't they see the flashing warning signs Alan Greenspan was chairman of the U.S central bank the Federal Reserve for ten years proceeding the crisis
He was a driving force for the deregulation of banks and flock to placing the ballooning derivatives trades and housing markets Jerry is giving evidence the U.S Congress in October two thousand eight immediately after the crisis struck
I made a mistake and presuming that self interest of organizations specifically banks and others were such as if they were best capable of protecting their own shareholders and their equity and the firms
I still do not fully understand why it happened
That all the central bankers in national and international institutions allowed this to happen and to see the crisis coming troubles me deeply Martin Wolf is chief economics commentator at the Financial Times
There's no doubt of financial institutions and that regulates has made in retrospect ... obscene no doubt about it and I don't think any of them would seriously denied
As ... what they were doing was perfectly legal and so the regulations and laws as much as the people are to blame
I think there are two so sort of things that we have to think about
I'm pretty sure that must've been things going on here which was a fraudulent too close to it but the truth is and this is I think really frightening face
That most if it was legal in a way was frightening about it is that we could get into such a terrible mess
When people were doing things at the very risky
But taking risk is not illegal taking risk ... ... the financial institutions that full so you could say and I think I Would say that the real problem was that what was passed the legal turned out to be spectacularly dangerous
The financial crisis was the first crisis to highlight the underlying weakness of globalization
Bill many benefits to increased integration and it does lead to unprecedented development and progress in many areas however it also leads to a new vulnerabilities and into dependency which is why more cooperation and agreed rules of the game on needed
The opposite was happening the regulators engaged in the race to the books and
I saw it here in the United states where the banks will come to the U.S government and say if you do deregulate we will lose out to UK bangs or European banks Icelandic banks
My view is good
Or if they want to go for a set up a gambling casino they wind to behave badly left that's their problem but let's protect America which protect Americans and so I never bought this race to the bottom but a lot of policymakers dead
And I think the magnitude of the lobbying five lobbyists paid by the banking industry for every member of Congress
Hundreds of millions of dollars in campaign contributions and lobbying the banks didn't know how to invest in real assets they knew how to invest wealth and political aspects
For this the bankers were originally rewarded three weeks off they went bankrupt the c._e._o. of Lehman Brothers Richard food appeared in front of Congress
Folds at the bottom line is that since two thousand you've taken home more than four hundred and eighty million dollars my question to you is that fair for the CEO of a company that's now bankrupt to have made that kind of money it's just unimaginable to so many people
I Would say to you the five hundred numbers
Leave my cash compensation ah we're supposed to sixty million and I believe the amount that I took out of the company over and above that was a little bit less than two hundred and fifty million still large numbers of
Richard food to clarify does he only three hundred and ten million dollars
But he didn't respond to the question them fan is
In good times bankers were paid exorbitant bonuses in bad times government bailed out the banks using taxpayers' money and the bank is still receive big bonuses and re people lost their jobs and suffered enormous pain no one to the public will getting angry here's Jeff sex again
I made a call at one point to Larry Summers who was a senior advisor of
Obama and says Larry
You got to stop these bonuses to these banks that you're bailing out and he said oh I Can't do that these are contracts Jeff we have the rule of law I said are you kidding you're bailing them out how can you not impose limits on the bonuses well they didn't it
It was outrageous and the public sense that it was outrageous and no one went to jail
No one went to jail but more than that I counted as the CEOs of the wall street institutions went to the state dinners of Mr Obama a wedding shy to meet with the president is the
Hallowed leaders of the U.S economy [noise]
The cozy relationship between most recently the White House was not diminished by the crisis if anything under President Obama and now President Trump and it's become even more conflicted Wall Street spent two billion dollars a loving and campaign contributions in the run up to the two
Thousand sixteen American election despite the promise to drain the swamp President Trump is continued to recruit from Wall street in particular Goldman Sachs but the problem was not simply capture even when governments wanting to do the right thing civil servants and ministers simply did not understand
The technological innovations loud bang cars to run rings around them this and the race to the bathroom to reduce the restrictions that banks faced
Helps to explain deregulation in the u._k. and across Europe dying Coyle is professor of public policy at the University of Cambridge in England
I let the treasury minute Nineteen eighties and is it being decided to get ... evacuation that was called big bank in the city of London and left the bills to be taken away and thanks very much ... ... I had to be not to get the full
And that involved an increase in ... case and I haven't seen yet official saying to me um [noise] we have to net for Mr explaining what the truth ...
And she said the fishing is overeating take and after the event have us and asking for an explanation of what an essay was they had they had done in ... think tank so I think ... than it you know if this is a logical a philosophical as much that was the idea to understand the complexity
In the years following the crisis the public's trust in government is full and in those countries about the affected in Greece Spain and Italy and feel about over twenty percent and remains well below ... levels it was before the crisis
You're listening to Ninety point nine W. B. U. R. FM Boston homo Boston's largest radio news rub Ninety two point seven WB your way to bury eighty nine point one WVU H Brewster and streaming W. B. U. R. dot org W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR News station [noise]
Eight six o'clock here in London hello and welcome Denise day on the b._b._c. was that this would punish shop and change something [noise]
Good morning author of young is here with the big business story yes the United states and Canada have finally reached a last minute deal to revamp a trade agreement that was about to collapse will tell you why it matters
A guide to Indonesia by more than eight hundred people have died in ... and the death toll is expected to
Rise Donald Trump and says he won't get the FBI investigation and to the Supreme Court nominee will get the views of ... ... S C I now I
Have will hear about the west bank village where his radio ... handed out notices of imminent demolition plan
To get advice on passed by DNA come from outer space that sounds to me just well [noise]

Er the neo Nunez refer BBC News
The United states and Canada have reached a last minute do lawn revising the north American free trade agreement to ensure it remains a try natural part with Mexico
Under the new U.S Mexico Canada agreement has agreed to give us dairy producers access to its domestic markets in return for protection from us ...
After more than a year of renegotiation the deal came just before midnight us imposed deadline will grow in terms of the details
Of a deal began to repair from governments who is more free nations with the NAFTA renegotiation
And the ... and his his yeah they want us to confirm that deal on his Twitter account the timing was key with Mexico keen for an agreement before the change of power
And the Trump Administration also wanting to reach a deal before the crucial midterm elections in November not left Canada not wanting to remain outside of free trade deal with it for a trillion dollars in regional new trade
Indonesia has called for international help us at scrambles to good food or even heavy equipment to central ... ways that you read was devastated by friday's earthquake and tsunami more than eight hundred people are confirmed dead but that figure is expected to rise above ... sent this report
Where once vibrant fishing villages were and now piles of rubble
He puts possession smash together with ties in boats thrown around in the massive wave survive as he as sleeping out in ten in the ruins of their homes and say they have said no aid and running out of clean water and food
At the local health panic arose have bodies in plastic bags is no power here and said do they say they will have to bury the bodies in mass graves today to stop the spread of disease is
The United nations special envoy for Yemen mountain river so schools are urgent international action to solve the world's worst humanitarian crisis from deteriorating further or chief international correspondent leads to set spoke to Mr Griffiths in New York after he had met most of the major players in Yemen's Wal
Mart in Griffin said he was encouraged by their response to the UN's clarion call to avert a looming salmon but he cautioned it would only become clear in the next week or so
Whether enough financial aid and food would be provided to prevent even greater suffering Michigan it's also believe this crisis is focused minds of the urgent need for peace talks
Last month who the rebels field to show up for discussions in Geneva Mr Griffin says he's now hopeful he can convene another meeting within weeks Yemen he warned can't take much more of this war
World news from the BBC
Iran's revolutionary guard goals as it is fun several ballistic missiles into eastern Syria striking the ring leaders of the recent militant a time in the Ukrainian city of of all as we've said a large number of terrorists had been killed or wounded
Islamic state group and an ethnic Arab separatist group both said they covered up the gun attack on a ... which killed twenty five Iranians
Troops from North and South Korea have they gone to remove some of them old an eight hundred thousand landmines though to be buried 'em they're heavily fortified border
That remove was one of a number of confidence building measures agreed with the two Korean leader Kim Jong own then president Moon Jae in math last month and young young Laura bigger isn't so
For the next few weeks army engineers starts in what is known as the joint security area we most of the guard posts and chips they're based it's hoped they sweat will eventually like both sides to me more freely
Minds ... even if I had rich for hundreds of soldiers were killed and intense fighting the war
But you can be as one to excavate the site and identified the remains stocking gift where so soon after president named the tanks on his summit with Kim Jong un and Pyongyang will build confidence between north and say if they try to reduce military tensions along the border
To ends of thousands of supporters of Brazil's foreign aid to presidential candidate John ... have marched through the streets of cities across the country a week ahead of the election was ... ... is leading those opinion polls with just under thirty percent
Hundreds of thousands of independence supporters are expected to demonstrated rules the Spanish region of Catalonia later on Monday bill mark exactly a year since the regional government defined Madrid holding an illegal independence referendum that resulted in heavy handed police action to stop
The vote that's the latest the b._b._c. world news [noise]
Thank you very much for that and they all had everybody weapons and you stay with tiny shop me Gen something to
The next few minutes we'll get placed on the Indonesian island devastated by Saddam even then they you can keep up with the program by falling BBC well seventh and face the choice and you can text us and he has a number of hospital for seven seven eight six twenty five [noise]
Start with that story NAFTA the north American free trade agreement initially between the United states Canada or Mexico
At one point it looked like Mexico in the U.S might die I don't know but now the U.S and Canada have reached a last minute deal to revise NAFTA President Trump Trump campaigned on a promise to revamp the deal how business center real young
And for the past quarter of a century but Donald Trump or when he was campaigning to president said it was to blame for an exodus of
Manufacturing jobs out to the United states and he promised to renegotiate it now but after a fool's mediation in a sense Mexico on the u._s. do to deal
With the weeks ago about Canada was holding out and it looked as if this three times we deal would collapse and just us and Mexico would remain in a revamped version but the last minute deal has been dumped
A between Washington and also in addition to a name change
Or the big sticking point has been ... to do with the dairy industry Canada was concerned about allowing us dairy farm is access to that
Market not just moved and allowed us some access and that means the deal has now been done but this is a big change from Canada Google ... used to be enough the lawyer he's now the Centre of international dominance innovation and moved to new in Canada
We have to see the details and we have to see what type of uh of access how much or cannot hair has allowed but I don't think
Uh I mean it is a large volume which I don't think it will be
Canada and they had to give a greater access to the U.S to it very actually free products it very poultry and egg those heart of the products covered by its supply management skiing
And the reason is a you know Canada has been granted access to other countries
And it's a more recent negotiations with the European Union grabbed it are you a larger access to which market so it was
Clear that it had to move or with it and they go she Asians are with us
If you look at the deal the rule is this a win for the United states Donald Trump in any trade you would be done on the basis of Americans are incidental presumably marriage was the biggest winner
I don't think so and we have to distinguish several things first
Of all is waiting for the United states in in ... this is a washed down agreement it it is a wash down not stuff there are more protection is protection is schools that are included in the agreement on to that extent
The three countries who stay there it will be more difficult uh you know the ... the cost of production will rise or that they were eventually will turn into greater prices for consumers that that is the United states
And that is not necessarily the same as asking
Whether this is a win for for President Trump who can paint on we go she aiding than after [noise] I don't think however that it is a big win for President Trump's either
Is to go out into other allegations that are not related to the one made it made by a doctor for
Any of the other people that are are authorized for interview this was still in negotiations with the with the Senate so we'll have to see how it plays out in the next seven days
One state to complete the investigations within the scope of whatever is allowed to them within the scope of the time will happen next to do they give a recommendation did they say yes this person is St for example to be a judge on on the Supreme Court
No and background of ... the FBI never provides a recommendations or conclusions the agents in the field who are conducting these interviews and will will not actually
Have any input into summaries that are provided to the White House in the report in the investigation they will simply complete their their interviews send them electronically to FBI Headquarters where they will be
... and placed into a report and then there will be an executive summary of the contents of the
Interviews at the beginning and that will be provided to the White House
As David got him as a retired FBI special agents talking about ... FBI investigation into the allegations against Brett Kavanaugh who's the Trump's nominee for Supreme Court judge
To the west bank now and the fate of a place called ... which must have a strong came to be the most well known Veterans Day and age on the planet
I save Tony before on it and you said the Israeli authorities have authorized the destruction of advantage people encounter online have been told by the Israeli government that they have until midnight tonight Monday to move
Their own homes otherwise the state will send in bulldozers by Michael ... is the editor in chief of the left wing Israeli magazine tough nine seven to welcome to the program my co what is the residents refused to go what will happen you will they go ahead and bulldoze their spinach
Bail bulldozed the village and forcibly displaced a presumably the the residents to a different location and
Just remind us that why does the government wanted to demolish it
There's a few levels you have to understand here the the the reasoning that the government is giving is that it's a simple planning issue which you know sounds innocent enough but there's two other is is a place here one is that we're talking about occupied territory
And according to human rights groups out of the Palestinian authority is and ah most world leaders forcibly displaced thing that protected population in occupied territory is
A great for each of international law and on the geopolitical level it the location of the village is very very important um it's it's in a place of the west bank where if
The Palestinian population is removed and Israeli settlements come in to replace them where there's already settlements there exist in there are many people say that it would it would
Cut the west bank into two different pieces I'm making a contiguous territory impossible should we ever see some sort of peace deal mhm and it would also cut off East Jerusalem which many people are
By the Palestinians and much of the world believe to be a will be the capital of the of a Palestinian state middle cut it off from the rest of the west bank
A piece of people have been living here since the Nineteen fifties not ease rainy government said the structures we built on state owned land without comments from the Israeli miniature he which undid the Nineteen Ninety three all ... teams have control over construction in sixty percent of the west bank known as Area C suggests this fall within ...
It does the residents claim that it's actually privately owned land owned by a a nearby Palestinian town uh but the other thing you have to understand about Area C and and there's really control there is that the Israeli military which is responsible for approving a building permits and in that area that you mentioned denies
Well over Ninety percent of Palestinian requests for building permits and the residents of kind of a smart one of their their last ditch attempts to stave off this this demolition was to submit a their own planning
And their own master plan for for normalizing the the the the building permits of of their village and something that Israeli government allows settlers Jewish Israeli settlers to do when when they're caught building or what the Israeli government that describes ... says go ahead
Michael surely the Israeli government that has offered them an alternative place to go to despite an international objection to this has been an alternative pacing where would that be then
There is it's a a location not too far away um
It's also very close to a trash dump 'em which is you can imagine it's not it's not ideal for this for this residents and the other the other problem to have with it is that it it would presumably stops them from
A continuing their uh their lifestyle which involves are hurting and another agrarian aspects
Okay and it has become an international issue we said this being unable to international objection to this including the un advising against it that Israel has not and nascent has gone to had to wait to I said what's likely to happen if this should go ahead
You know the Israeli government has been trying to
Sort of take over this area and remove the Palestinian population for a few decades now and
Up until the Trump Administration the Americans and the rest of the world have essentially told the Israeli government do not do this ...
And now there's there's very little resistance and the European Parliament warned that it would be a grave rich rich international law uh last year the many European countries warned Israel that there would be a reaction to this happened but that doesn't seem that there's any any real threat
Okay Michael on the editor in chief of the next thing is raining ... plus nine seven two
Scientists was discovered that a key processing the Christ of life may have taken place in outer space roses among us fosters compounds revised to adamant and the creation of DNA but they may have made that you hear from into Stella dust clouds presser Ross ... has been leading the research he spoke to these days ... Hawkins
... compounds like full faith and die or they can be formed in ... by ... actions all smoke temperature for seeing was a staff wise oxidation and then drove them I also know that the ... in in just said about clouds
Or to regret in the building blocks or the building that you wrote for for less systems like asteroids and comets
And we also have an effect back in ancient times comets and asteroids can impact on us so these are all different scientific facts but we can say that plus faith and die for taking back to Iraq can be made in deep space and that can be delivered to us
I'm going to be honest I myself I'm a very simple form of life so I'm just trying to
Break this down into language that I can understand
And these phosphates arrived on us via potentially asteroids
By major rides or by comets right okay and then they arrive enough and then they form the conduct pools of chemicals that that we think theoretically formed the building blocks of DNA which is well roommate from that's opposed to the U. S. correct I'll just come to the chase boys this important and I
We wanted to know how would live developed and whole life or reject rides and you are one of the key elements for life is full of of course
The ability that these protesters can look what happened on other planets outside our solar system
... says hey you guys I said this basically increases that the probability of possibility that life does exist in other parts of the it
It definitely shows that the molecular because there's two life can be easily phones or over in the unit was where these conditions like low temperatures ISIS radiation and the courts or they can make us this
... thing and does it say name that fold the eighth phosphates these compounds deeds thoughts out there in the universe and then arrive
On it and they were essential for creating life that in fact we're all ... and in some form I don't want
To go that far I mean it was an alien even not even an hour or the chemicals on us or alien origin I mean you know from the time so I mean I wouldn't put it so sensational on it
But this is the media you're talking to the media Kevin ... with the ... if if I
Didn't see or are you said we all get lost because you're finding
All [laughter] he wasn't gonna buy or the perhaps Iraq Cajun
Distribution of the b._b._c. World Service in the U.S has made possible by American public media producer and distributors of award winning public radio contact eight PM American public media with support from ... online test prep for the ACT SAT Jerry and gene that
That's designed to improve scores students can get the video lessons practiced questions and experts support online at ... dot com [noise]
From Boston University this is not the point nine W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR News station with live streaming at W. B. Y. Don
Worn this Charlie hold hasten sports Red Sox ended regular season complaint beating the New York Yankees tempted to Sunday in Fenway Park
That article appeared in the New York times on Sunday investigating how about Ninety politicians have been killed in South Africa since the start of twenty sixteen many of those killed had one thing in common they were members of the African National Congress who has who had spoken out against corruption in the policy now we're joined by many to Hamas who's an expert
On political violence and he's based in Austin and Italian debt and specifically welcome to the program Mary I was in South Africa recently and we had I had people talking about this but it's taking an international newspaper to come out and expose it what's going on
Good morning everybody well what's going on it's been going on for a few yes I've seen ... since I'm a
The ... election of a ... is a precision we've had um I'm not an increase of ... a tremendous increase in corruption in government at all levels and it's a particularly noticeable at the
Local governments and makes you a local government evil and that's where most of these killings and taking pay ... for um municipal officials who have tried to expose corruption
And the ... the ... and the general reveals ... you're talking about local ... and
And even they have bodyguards and lots of politicians are carrying guns themselves and let's look at the latest kidding of Mr Murdoch the macaca he's a rising star in the ... who had become
A national the guy he returned to local politics in his hometown in is included in question and tell why him why target someone like him he he I'm not
I'm not the gross corrupt the grocery corrupt deal I'm millions with him for the renovation of an historic pool
And they wouldn't use that ... gone into the market so comes to these regular tend to have been awarded the favorite way of doing it uh
You you you have a tendency to your one of your friends or a relative and a lot of the money is often back into your own pocket you can go next for it and my doctor had actually ah
Had some documentation about that he was doing that and that's the reason he was shocked to hear the two other people who survive yes he's not for a while but he died on the ...
Census and people feel that she may have even be poisoned deadline was purring and the other thing is like
We know political Suffolk is you know in terms of political assassinations is not new south Africa because during the apartheid regime you saw that they will ... violence between political policies and so but this is different the allegation in the article he has that AMC officials like killing each other yeah they they're organizing
Hit men um to do it and that's a problem you see a lot of the smallest you should also have interest in say from here to come to the next few industry up the taxi industry the ... the industry has long been dubbed
... virus searches as a as a mafia um they're they're the people
Who Syria Iran for black people who don't have the sport
And the leading a than eating ... province is ...
It shouldn't of former president Zuma and he also lost as the ... the the the ticks you lose you kick you literally close to last us politician so between the
Guys on this the tech industry is known for employing hit men and those men may exes bodyguards I mean the buddy go up to the talk of the guns the bodyguards
And safe or is it says if you ...
And at this also married the article goes on to say that this is a ... of the current president is struggling to unite she's ... and he's administration has even resistant official demands to provide police protection for to ANC whistle blows in the case surrounding missed him about ...
... some anti corruption officials but very briefly have there been any convictions just very briefly if you could
Um no they haven't the duty niche conviction submitted since two thousand and sixteen and I do want to say that the nod
Of new students and two pieces you use it to enter the corruption finds himself in grave danger and as soon as you know if the nation about why when they start to ... to ... who's been flashing corruption for years living locked in to
The animals there's no reason given for them who are fighting corruption not to get a not to get them and that's something the recommendation even if the public ... who's who's who's a
Recommendation has the leafy ignored by feeding is that it's the enemies he's made with in the policies which are pushing a witch hunt blocking attempts to protect them and that's really serious and I think we've all the rest of the world's near the danger under which these men are Lizzie
We'd be we pick up on this story married because it's New York times headline it's as significant story indeed but I've just been looking through to it to I've looked at seven oh two which is an independent radio station and looked at
I Witness news has any they're not talking about it is it has is a big has become a talking point since the article has come out in the New York times like straw
I really I haven't heard any feedback yet for local media they usually get don't mix like with the ...
Uh in the last few weeks it's been the last ... coverage of it up if you let even report came out very wishy washy report in St Louis who lives in the program
A it was a commission that was established by the premier that didn't tell us anything we didn't know ready and in fact uh I think to be sensitive to who says what for shooting off as ...
As if us at the moment it it does nothing
To see no feedback no college about New York times or the may well be okay
Maybe to house expect on political violence based in Devon ... thank you very much for joining us
Now to go to the United states went on documented migrant children are being moved to attempt in the desert in Texas they've given us a warning open moved at night and when they arrive housed intense in rows bunks
His new school and they have followed us support than they had the cat homes from which they be moved ... New York times has been researching the story and described to come to new stays on the suture
It's on that sort of bleak Sandy patch of desert and when you when you see it from overhead you just see rows and rows of massive ten and
The United states government has sent Thirteen hundred kids they're so far and that number's expected to continue going up because we were dealing with a bottleneck right now where unaccompanied minors continue to come into the country but they're not being released as quickly as they used to be and so as a result we're just far over capacity in the shelters that
But typically hold those children and that's why the government is turning to the tent city in Texas
This term suitable for some of
[noise] so it's comfortable from what I'm told but spare the children's sleep and bunk beds are usually twenty cats in each ten in bunk beds and they're separated by gender they have a health clinic on site there still are served three warm meals a day
But you know at the end of the day they're soft sided what what are called soft sided structures are essentially large tents and so the prospect of living there for months on end for a young kid is pretty foreboding and that's why I think this story has drawn so much attention
To the border from ... to ... and the other one is one of the government is doing was
The best way to understand it as this you know
Migration flows into the United states they fluctuate constantly
But in the last several years they more or less stayed at the same level ... have changed since President Trump came into office but what's different is that in the past unaccompanied minors were matched with sponsors that's usually family members or friends who've come forward once they come to the United states and agree to sponsor them and take them and take them home
But the Trump Administration has changed you know both policies and rhetoric in a way that have really intimidated people out of coming
Because they are afraid themselves of getting caught up in the Trump administration's immigration enforcement agenda because the vast majority of adults who sponsored these kids and take them in our undocumented immigrants
Votes will be hearing stories about how the children are being moved that they're being away from the middle of the night and then taken on buses why is that the ...
The idea behind waking up in the middle night in ... giving them a whole lot of notices that the government doesn't want them to try to escape doesn't want to give them enough time to try to come up with an escape plan you know figures that they're going to be a little more intimidated are scared to try to run away if they're traveling in the middle of the night versus during daylight hours
And just to be clear it would be good to be tempted facilitators the boxes to school to the boxes to come play we'll start life like for them
They can play but they do not have access to schooling so kids at the tent city do not get schooling they're given ... books that they can fill out if they want to but they're under no obligations to sell
What about the legality of all this was a different legal to produce children like that
[noise] it is legal um and you know a lot of people are familiar with something called the floor as settlement in the u._s. which says that you can't hold migrant children in custody for more than twenty days but that only applies to immigration detention facilities essentially jail and so because these ... these are technically
On the outside with me Nikki baby global pop icon Janet Jackson on music videos making a comeback of just shrinking production budgets
We all watched it and watched it that budgets get smaller and smaller when you were used to them being ... million something and now it back up again [noise] um but it's it's nice because if it's if he can make them into many films
What was that in t._v. shake created Jonathan Ames he's book you would never really hear it became the excellent walk in the next hour tells us about the release of his novel the extra non skateboard as Nina Moran and David Lovelace them the documentary that rain skate kitchen
And Hollywood style Glenn places such as the need for twenty century fatal attraction
It would be wonderful to tell the exact story from her point of view because there is so much about her that wasn't clear you know it was left to people's imagination
Old fashioned musician Michael ... he's the ... coming up on the salaries

Are the new news with the b._b._c. news the United states and Canada have reached a last minute do revising but North American free trade agreement to enjoy it remains a ... with Mexico
A joint statement said the new agreement named the U.S Mexico Canada agreement would result in free markets wherever trade and robust economic growth will ground reports
Often more than a year of owned Jewish renegotiation the final text of the new NAFTA deal came at the eleventh hour in effect that saved an actor and its presence state has a try ... agreement between the countries in North America
In particular that Canadians relented on a deal to make us dairy producers access to the domestic market while in return they received protection from us who Timothy ... if
The timing was key with Mexico keen for an agreement before the change of power and the Trump Administration said wanting to reach a deal before the crucial midterm elections in November not left Canada not wanting to remain outside of free trade deal with a trillion dollars in regional new trade
Indonesia has called for international help as scrambled to good food are you doing heavy equipment to central sooner ways which was devastated by friday's of where you're going to know more than eight hundred people are confirmed dead ... sent this report
One vibrant fishing villages were and now piles of rubble
He possession smash together with ties in boats rolling around in the market and waved survive as he as sleeping out in ... in the ruins of their homes and say they have said no aid and running out of clean water and food
Iran's revolutionary Guard Corps says it does floods several ballistic missiles into eastern Syria striking the ring leaders of the recent religion to talk in the uranium so do you have a vase molten patience is in Beirut
The rain and military claimed the missile strikes for targeting the ringleaders of last month's attack and says many of them were killed when these in these strikes the b._b._c. can all independently verify these claims
Iranian TV suggested the missiles struck close to the town of ... in eastern Syria where Islam is the extremists are known to all parades and
They show late to Iran claimed that Arab sat protests carries out that tact in the military parades but there's ... state group
Also claimed it was behind the salt
United Nations special envoy for ... mountain Griffiths says schools for uh gyms international action
It's from did you were raging for her he was speaking to BBC in New York after meeting most of the major players in Germans will world news from the babies are
Most of the owners pro European prime minister ... diverse on with the parliamentary vote to change the country's ... even those Sunday's referendum on the issue for him to give him a clear mind
Greece which has its own region of Macedonia my objection to its northern neighbor user good suited remained committed to dropping its objection to you and major membership is the name change goes ahead

Hundreds of thousands of independent supporters are expected to demonstrate the girls the Spanish region of Catalonia ... the mock exactly a year since the regional government defined Madrid by holding an illegal independence referendum that resulted in heavy handed police action to stop the vote
Troops from ... from South Korea have gone to remove some of the ... or eight hundred thousand learn lines to be buried under a heavily fortified border the removal was one of a number of confidence building measures agreed between the two Korean leaders Laura bigger isn't show
For the next few weeks army engineers will starts in what is known as a joint security area we most of the guard posts and trips there based it's hoped ... will eventually like both sides can move more freely
Minds Los ... known as Adam had rich for hundreds of soldiers were killed and intense fighting during the war
But you can be as one to excavate the site and identified the remains stocking this where so soon after president main returned from his summit with Kim Jong un in Pyongyang will build confidence between north and say if they try to reduce military tensions along the border
Judges or the international court of justice or due to ruin later today on a hundred and Thirty years to retool real dispute between Bolivia sugar
You're listening to Ninety point nine WB you are from Boston Wilma Boston's largest radio news roam the other two points on WB your way to ... he learned point one WVU wage Brewster and streaming WVU our dog or W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR News station [noise]
Besides ... hello and welcome to Newsday on the b._b._c. World Service with Tony shop on June ... [noise]
Have a stake Canada the United states and Mexico have reached a deal to reform the north American free trade agreement hours before a deadline set by President Trump from Rob young for my business desk is looking at how significant this movie
Started today more than eight hundred people report to have died off the earthquake and tsunami struck the Indonesian island of pseudo ... could reach several thousand
Sense of the ... of scientists have discovered that a peace process in the creation of life may have taken place in outer space and is it true that Britain is the loneliness and capital of Europe cities will try to find out why that is
What's coming up things for Newsday [noise]

Hello this is David Austin with the b._b._c. news the United states and Canada have reached a last minute deal and revising the north American free trade agreement to ensure that remains of tries actual packed with Mexico
The joint statement said the new arrangement would result in free markets ferret trade and robust economic growth will grown triple
Often more than a year of owns us renegotiation the final text of the new NAFTA deal came at the eleventh hour in effect that saved an actor and its presence stages trying ... agreement between the countries in North America
In particular that Canadians relented on a deal to us dairy producers access to the domestic market while in return they received protection from us ... if
The timing was key with Mexico keen for an agreement before the change of power and the Trump Administration also wanting to reach a deal before the crucial midterm elections in November not left Canada not wanting to remain outside of free trade deal with a trillion dollars in regional new trade
Engine easier has called for international help as its scrambles to get food aid and heavy equipment to central ... which was devastated by friday's earthquake and tsunami Thailand Australia or among countries to offer assistance
Rescue is continuing to dig that people trapped in wrecked buildings in the city of ... ... an eight hundred people are confirmed dead mass graves of being dug
Iran's revolutionary Guard Corps says it's fired several ballistic missiles into eastern Syria striking the ring leaders of the recent militants attacking the Iranian city of buzz mustn't patients reports from Beirut
The rain and military claimed the missile strikes for targeting the ring leaders of last month's attack and says many of them were killed of wouldn't these in these strikes the b._b._c. ... independently verify these claims
Iranian TV suggested the missiles struck close to the town of ... in eastern Syria where Islamist extremists are known to operate
You're late that Ryan claimed that Arab Sam princess carries out that tact in the military parades but there's ... state group also claimed it was behind the salt the un special
Envoy for Yemen mountain Griffith has called for urgent international action to the world's worst humanitarian crisis leads to spent ... with us in New York
Marching Griffin said Yemen was facing an unimaginable prospect that the desperate humanitarian crisis there could get much worse he said he was encouraged by the response to the UN's clarion call
To avert a looming fan in Michigan it's also believed this crisis his focus minds of the urgent need for peace talks
Will news from the BBC
Hundreds of thousands of independence supporters are expected to demonstrate to cross the Spanish region of Catalonia later on Monday and ... years since the regional government to fight Madrid by holding an illegal independence referendum that resulted in heavy handed police action to stumped those
Troops from North and South Korea become to remove some of them over eight hundred thousand land mines thought to be buried of on the heavily fortified border they remove all was one of a number of confidence building measures agreed between the two Korean leaders Laura ... is in so
For the next few weeks army engineers starts in what is known as a joint security area we most of the guard posts and she said based it's hoped they sweat will eventually like both sides can have more freely
Mindful also be cleats them it's like when I had which for hundreds of soldiers were killed and intense fighting cheating the war
But you can be as one to excavate the site and identified the remains stocking gift where so soon after president named the tanks and his summit with Kim Jong un and young young will build confidence between north and say if they try to reduce military tensions along the border
That the international court of justice due to rule later today on about a hundred and thirty a territorial dispute between Bolivia and Chitty landlocked Bolivia hopes the decision will force Chitty to enter the negotiations over transferring landed on charities northern coast sign
To see a season of Nobel Prize announcements gets underway in Sweden today with the disclosure of the winner of the award in physiology or medicine for the first time in nearly Seventy years that wouldn't be a literature prize is fun is the scandal surrounding rape charge against
Oh no we have close ties with the Swedish Academy which was the prize in literature he's huge rip here in a store current course about the time of today's
Met some announcements of solutions to the b._b._c. news [noise]
Becky Ross how everybody welcomed Newsday Tony ... and James ... had over the next few minutes we'll hear from Indonesia off the devastating to nominate Saddam me that and also why young people in Britain are the most likely inured to be ... [noise]
Dollar with a trade breakthrough United States and Canada reached a last minute agreement on preserving a free trade deal the top of North America President Trump campaigned on a promise to revamp the existing do things would lead to job losses business present rope young is here are so what's new in this
Over the past quarter century trade between the U.S Canada and Mexico has been governed by NAFTA the north American free trade agreement Donald Trump's I hate that you described as the worst deal in us history saying it led to manufacturing job leaving America to us and Mexico agreed and ... Canada was playing a tougher games
But minutes before us imposed deadline on Sunday night all throughout and Washington reached an agreement both sides say the United states Mexico Canada agreement
Will result in free markets Federal Trade ... economic growth in the region but senator house how to get into some American demands dumped him and he joins of trade experts adults would university
Told me that Canada has negotiated hard
On prevented us from getting everything that it wanted
At the Canadian team has done very well in this negotiated pretty hard
Um has read correctly the constraint on Donald Trump
That actually posed by his own Congress and the U.S
Business I'm so his threat was that it
Kind of you know if it wasn't going to play pool he would go ahead
With a bilateral agreement with just the United states Mexico but the reality was he would have struggled to get through that through the U.S Congress and they would've been a huge amount of pressure on him against such a bilateral deal that that's kind of outcome from his own business people that was sort of not really a credible threat and the Canadians understood that
Canada though has had to allow us farmers more access to a dairy market and this was a big sticking point too had promised an agent farmers it wouldn't do this to this potential your pride element to this deal for Canada
So it's very early hours we're really in the very we haven't seen the details of the tax my understanding is that what they were the Canadians have agreed it's only a tiny bit more than they already agreed back in the days of the Trans Pacific partnership agreement
I'm so back then they promised um the members of the TPP which included the United states of course access to that very markets by opening up
A little bit over three percent of the dairy market and my understanding is I haven't seen the text yet but my understanding is that they've been a tiny bit more than that but it isn't it's nowhere near the radical overhaul and opening up of the Canadian dairy sector that the u._s. which
Was aiming for the stock the talks
And the other thing that's very important to recognize is that Canada has been very successful so we understand again it's ... days but and we understand and preserving that what's called the dispute sacrament mechanism to Nineteen of the original NAFTA which again us wanted to water down so it does seem that kind of that sort of helps them on that
Stolen tribes always said that when it came to doing trade deals and he said he would renegotiate an awful lot of them after being at the top of the lists
That it would be America's first and other countries said they would only do deals with the U.S if it was when when but don't show that Trump's way of doing trade does actually worked because it is the world's biggest economy people will give us pretty much whatever it won't
Sundown to leave the u._s. it's huge when it comes to the global economy and not does give them an edge in the negotiations that playing with some very astute and the guy taking pot and as we saw the U. S. renegotiating the deal with Korea and actually again it was held after the big renegotiation revamping of the U.S
Yes and we did all the the ... if it was about their neighborhoods and and whether they would talk to people and also and it was interesting looking because we have people from all over the world type part
And in in nine countries in particular we were able to do more detailed comparisons and that we found that um the the UK and then I'm I'm from in the U.S had kind of comfortable
Uh levels of letting us and India but it was a bit lower in New Zealand which was interesting and we also looked in in terms of bigger regions we looked at a which countries
Are places where people really value that independence and northern Europe is a place that would very much be the case and they have high levels of learning us in the countries where people were very independent than in the places where people tend to depend on each other more and be happy to depend on each other
So being independent it's not necessarily a good thing now the prime minister added to see I told you set up punching levy a loneliness and social isolation with wanting that millions of people were suffering from a lack of regular contact with us which is what you were pointing to in being independent and how do you solve this though what's the strategy
We off people ... solutions they founded what for them and the closer to something as big as this to find out what is actually what for people for people they know that it is amazing um number one was finding distracting activities or oh dedicating your time to work or study all hope is max was joining us
Tom helpful suggestions that people make sense not for everybody
I'm changing your thinking to make it more positive to to look I'm On the bright side of things off of the safe sometimes are easier said than done
And I don't know the food was interesting was just don't see a conversation with anyone because it hasn't got to be deep meaningful long conversations that people have that can alleviate loneliness chanting somebody when you buy your paper in the shuffle or your milk or or whatever those little things in mind is connected to everybody else in the ... came in and wrote in the same well
And you can listen to the food is out all that said they only loneliness on the house ... BBC well said this this Wednesday at twenty faqih GMT
Now a referendum in Macedonia on changing the country's name denotes Macedonia has failed to pass the turnout threshold because it was necessary because Greece lays claim to that name Macedonia historical reasons
However they fell short of the fifty to central client of tech campaign to boycott the polls that any results suggest that more than Ninety percent of those who did vote supported the change it means is like it could be nudge at political maneuvering a head out Balkans correspondent died and no one even in Macedonia capital ...
The result is a significant play for prime ministers ... he'd made the name change his top priority since taking office last year
But a nationalist campaign to boycott the polls relevant but no it was being devastatingly successful the low turnout which means the referendum isn't falling down in the midst as I've said the boycott wouldn't derail the deal with Greece
Leaving aside the organized voice caused by the opposition I expect the huge majority of the citizens who voted have chosen the European ... [noise]

Supporters of the boycott campaign held a policy in front of the national assembly they said they stood up for Macedonia is right to self determination
I Want to keep the same name for the same country wherever I go I Will be Macedonian
And it can be the I don't want to be north ... or ... ... eastern I just want to be the republic of Macedonia
I think the north would have been to the decades old dispute over the country's name with neighboring Greece which has its own region called Macedonia Athens had agreed to drop its objections to Macedonia joining NATO and the European Union as long as it ratified the name change
That now looks and extremely complicated challenge but somebody to cut Jessica ... European Policy Institute says the some of them piece from the opposition party liberal may yet support the name change
It should not be impossible the objective is to dry off as much as possible those constitutional amendments in consultation with the upper there's some in order to increase long term the support for this agreement or with the grief
Moving Ninety percent of those who did vote agreed with the name change NATO secretary general Jens Stoltenberg said he welcomes the yes vote on you enlarge them into commissioner you're on the song called the outcome very significant despite the boycott the agreements with Greece is still alive
That's he's ... now scientists have discovered that a key processing the creation of life may have taken place in outer space rather than on us for ... compounds are vital element in the creation of DNA that they may make that journey here from ... to Stella
Dust cloud and that raises the possibility that it's not something yeah and they could be life out there but that's set routes ties up from the University of Hawaii has been leading the respect she still ...
... ... like ... or they can be followed in interest I it by ... all smoke temperature was seeing was start wise oxidation and then all of them are also know that the material in in just said about clout
Or are we regret in the building blocks or the building that you wrote for court systems like Esther it's a comet
Angry or wherever ... back in ancient times comets and asteroids can impact on us so these are all different countries ... but we can say that for space and I was in fact you can be made in deep space and that can be delivered to or
I'm going to be honest I myself I'm a very simple form of life so I'm just trying to
Break this down into language that I can understand
And these fights arrived on us and viable potentially asteroids
By mid to arise alright comets right okay and then they arrive on us and then they form the conduct pools of chemicals that that we think theoretically formed the building blocks of DNA which is what roommate from let's work through the yes correct I'll just cuts to the chase boys this important and I
We wanted to know how would live you bailout and whole life or or reject rides and you are one of the key elements for life
You know as opposed to it that these protesters can or what happened on the other planet outside ...
... says hey you guys I say this basically increases that the probability of possibility that life does exist in other parts of the it
It definitely shows that the molecular because it's too early life can be easily phones all over in the universe where these conditions like low temperatures ISIS radiation and the correspondent chemicals exist
Yet so that's exciting and does it say main that fold if folks fights these compounds deeds thoughts outlet in the universe and then arrive
On us and they were essential for creating life that in effect we're all id and in some form I don't want to
Go that far I mean everything is alien humans are not even an hour or the chemicals on earth are alien origin I mean you know from the star so I mean I wouldn't put it all sensation on a ...
A but this is the media you talking to the media kept them perhaps the cause of what the film the
Agency or are you said we're all get lost because you're finding your I'm off [laughter]
I Know the way Paul is just digging hope paying all we all need at the front alien ...
Who are not the professor was no danger own was in
School funding to protect us and and when he saw that victory is maybe a little bit of elements of that that say
Is I think there isn't it yeah I mean you know where you come from already so complicated is like an extra
Extraterrestrial ... mentioned way to start mention a let's say um let me give you just a reminder of our main stories are on the b._b._c. World Service right now ah Canada the United states and Mexico have reached a deal to reform in the north American free trade agreement agreements ... hours before a deadline set by President Trump
Indonesia's appeals international help as it responds the devastating earthquake and tsunami on pseudo se and Iran says that it's just fought ballistic missiles into eastern Syria touching those behind the ... minutes to tackle and he runs the of the buzz on the most important headlined
James went definitely know a half alien own pocket and ship that adds up to this is a nice day with James ... thank you may not be a company stay with the b._b._c. while setting [noise]

Distribution of the b._b._c. World Service in the U.S has supported by grownups offering cloud based workforce management solutions designed to help organizations all types of science is reduced labor cost improved workforce productivity and minimize compliance risk ... dot com workforce innovation networks ... online test prep
For the ISI T SAT G. R. E. N. G. math is designed to improve scores students can just video lessons practiced questions an expert support at ... dot com
From Boston University this is Ninety point nine W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR News station with live streaming W. B. U. R. dot org this is Charlie cold haze in sports a Red Sox ended regular season played beating the New York Yankees tend to to Sunday at Fenway Park
Well maybe than I Am
The hottest year on record is twenty sixteen an El Nino year when the conditions in the Pacific ocean put a huge amounts of extra heat into the atmosphere there was all points of remarkable weather event this year started out with a ... La Nina setting and I didn't mention that twenty eight team was going to be combat
Every year has some extremes the world is a big place after all but so many my impressions being that this is remarkable
Though that impression is absolutely correct and that's what made some are twenty eight teams so unique and so unprecedented
This is Michael Mann director of the system science center at Penn State university
It wasn't just that there were these regional extremes in heat waves floods wildfires droughts um it was sort of the large scale
Coherence to these events where they were breaking out around the entire northern hemisphere and there's some interesting connections there that may hint at certain aspects of climate change and how climate changes impacting extreme weather events that aren't actually will captured in the climate models yet
Michael Mann is well known as the author of the original hockey sticks jobs an gr off tossing global average temperatures over the centuries and revealing the dramatic increases in recent decades the first version was released Twenty years ago in Nineteen Ninety eight yeah fired up by another dramatic El Nino event
But which now ranks early night among annual average is the ... degree behind twenty sixteen
But Michael Mann admits that these global averages Bernie parts of the climate story ... ... the ... the masses to us
Often we take a narrow view and I say we sort of climate scientists and in our efforts to communicate to science to the public into policymakers too often we take this narrow view that climate is about averages and yes we expect
Increase in that has huge ramifications for global sea level rise from melting ice sheets et cetera but climate
More generally refers to the statistics of the weather in those statistics can be the average is because averages are statistics but it can also be the extremes in so it is relevant from the standpoint of climate to talk about how many are logical extremes
Are changing and indeed as you allude to that's where the rubber hits the road um when it comes to
You know people becoming aware and concerned about the impact of climate change uh there's no greater way to connect the dots than to help them understand that these extreme events that are impacting us now it isn't just about polar bears up in the Arctic it's about
Unprecedented heat and floods and drought and wildfires that are impacting us that are unfolding in real time honored television screens in our newspaper headlines that is the face of climate change this is the face of climate change
Nevertheless I voted wants to be cautious weather of some kind after all those happen every yeah
Of course you know All right let me think what is not necessarily a hunting or what to come which is the reason why I mean do you attribute any of them are and I think this summer and it's
To say this is something different than you still quite rare and is now a relatively common and then
Not just the fact that there were heat waves and droughts and floods and wildfires we expect those to become more frequent around the world
As the world warms up a world warms up well of course you're going to get more intense and long lived here words of heat to heat waves
The atmosphere gets warmer can hold more moisture so when it does rain you get more of it at once you get bigger floods at the same time those warmer temperatures cause more evaporation from soils you get worse droughts you take extreme drought you combine it with extreme heat
You're going to get wildfires so the science there is pretty basic as I said before it isn't rocket science or as we say here in the states but what is interesting is that there may be something more than just those factors those factors we understand they're fairly well captured in the models
What isn't well captured in the models is defective climate change may be impacting the behavior of the northern hemisphere jet stream in a way that actually causes these weather systems to become larger in apple two ... and to get stuck in place
Changes in the high ... jet stream wins one reason the Europe stood baking for so many weeks they also put another high over Siberia with high heat that and over North America
Where the most dramatic effects were extensive wildfires in British Columbia Canada and in California with seasonal conditions on combating a multi year drought says mark ...
California it's getting warmer and warmer it's warmest summers have been the last few years um is getting a drier and drier in part because those weather systems are getting pushed to the north denying it the winter precipitation that would help suppress um the summer droughts
Are so you know you've got a drying conditions you got warmer conditions and all of that uh feeds into the potential
For worst wildfires in what we saw happen for I Would say the first time
Was the disappearance of the notion of a fire season used to be that summers fire season a California Winter isn't
Now California appears to have
A perpetual fire season because the worst wildfire it ever had seen as of last winter was the Thomas wildfire last winter in Southern California only this summer did we see an even worse wildfire in in the Mendocino Complex fire northern California and some of the other wildfires that broke out
So California now has in essence a perpetual fire season and that is an indication of the
The profound challenged the climate changes already
Posing to us
Than I Do I have ... the largest fire forty fingers in the size of Los Angeles [noise]
These are the conditions
Lived and experience fine then yeah queen David some fire experts at the University of California
Compounded the tree stressing effects of long term child was enough rain in northern California last winter to stimulate a surge of bras gross to add an abundance of dry on the gross which fueled firestorm
In some parts of California we had a hundred and eighty percent
Of normal for graft production so I think a lot of fire people were thinking you know this just isn't looking good and all it's going to take is an ignition on the right day with the right whether to cause a real problem
And so when the Carr Fire started I was over here I live on the coast and buffered from some of the hot weather and things like that but
Pretty immediately that fire was raising Harris and my husband actually went over and worked on that
They were all feeling tension that we're not used to feeling around fire in California we've had it you know the last ten years we've had unprecedented fires almost every every year every other year but the Carr Fire felt different
Because ... affecting a major residential term walls in itself terrifying but the big one was the fire in the Mendocino hills actually a pair of funds that started on July the twenty seventh ... only finally confirmed extinguished last week
There was the ranch fire and the river fire and those were burning nearer to each other on the north and west sides of clear lake which is one of the largest lakes in California
It was during the height of the summer said the hottest days over a hundred degrees solid winds blowing through those areas is
Just all the right conditions for fast fire spread and extreme fire behavior and so the fires grew so quickly
They were sometimes burning twenty thousand acres in at twenty four hour period or were more maybe
The the rate of growth made it very difficult for cruised to to get a handle on it and they ended up burning four hundred and ten thousand acres and I we all have heard that that's the biggest fire in California history I think that the next big it was last year in Southern California at two hundred and eighty thousand acres so
A very large area
Of course it's not just being heat rice and fires well
California bunt in camera Sanford and yet they have the worst monsoon fighting in a hundred years
May come to Cadillac
Mild tasty most official say other world plus ... century [noise]
I'm originally from Caroline my family and religious that are like than my parents they're seeing this kind of fled for the first time in their life even my ... parents might not have seen a flood like this especially in our area there was a large flooding Nineteen twenty four
But the impact of the current threats were much more
This is Roxie coal an Indian meteorologists who's been looking into the long term trends in the behaviors among students which he attributes to global warming the candidate ranks he told me were quite exceptional
V. hat on Fifteen and sixteen before August for the state outraged rain for rehab about one fifty to one for the millimeter per day or a phone
And that is the talk to in to this is about two hundred and Seventy millimeter but two days of rain for
W. B. U. R. FM Boston homo Boston's largest radio newsroom now did you point seven WB you wait just buried eighty nine point one WB UH Brewster and streaming at W. B. U. bar taught or W. B. U. R. Boston's MBR Newsday
Showing up off to the news on the b._b._c. World Service it's hard to talk with me Stephen Zack they own sentences in European politics are crumbling most has seen fed up with the long established supremacy of the policies of center right and center left
The politics of identity and rural and motion and fueled populist insurgencies from Italy to Sweden to Eastern Europe mostly it is the right not the last in the Senate and
Well my ... Greece's radical leftists finance minister at the height of the economic crisis and an advocate of a new global progressive politics
Civilization is in the streets were experiencing a new both more than ... Nineteen thirties moment the liberal establishment has made them is of it that ... is on hold hold off to the news
Hello this is David Austin with the b._b._c. news the United states and Canada reached a last minute deal and revising the north American free trade agreement to ensure remains that tries actual packed with Mexico
A joint statement said the new arrangement could resulted in free markets ferret trade and robust economic growth will grow reports
The timing was key with Mexico keen for an agreement before the change of power
And the Trump Administration also wanting to reach a deal before the crucial midterm elections in November
Not less Canada not wanting to remain outside of free trade deal with a trillion dollars in regional new trade the Canadians relented on a deal to permit us dairy producers access to the domestic market while in return they received protection from us ...
Engine easier has called for international help 'cause it's scrambles to get food aid and heavy equipment to central ... which was devastated by friday's earthquake and tsunami
Rescue is a continuing to dig that people trapped in wrecked buildings in the city of positive well than a hundred people are confirmed dead but that ... is expected to rise
From positive Rebecca Hinch
Race and he said in a painful hills have lost everything family camping out among the wrath of fast ... Faye Faye Faye Faye a knee playing and war thing very eight he'll have to maintain they asked
How many of the medical an eight track them down because of the people the ... minutes it does have for us how people I think what made me
Iran's revolutionary Guard Corps says it's fired several ballistic missiles into eastern Syria striking the ring leaders of the recent minutes into attacking the Iranian city of flaws motion patients reports from Beirut
Rainy TV suggested the missiles struck close to the town of ... in eastern Syria where Islamist extremists are known to all parades
Unless you're late to Iran claimed that Arab sat princess carries out that tact in the military parades but these ... state group also claimed it was behind the salt
Un special envoy to Yemen mountain Griffith has cool Trojan to international action to stop the world's worst humanitarian crisis from deteriorating says that
He was speaking to the BBC in New York to me the most of the major players in Yemen's will ... said he was encouraged by the response to the un warning the looming famine and said it had focused minds on the urgent need for peace talks
Last month who the rebels who are fighting the Saudi Government failed to attempt discussions in Geneva
Will news from the BBC so says truths from both north and South Korea started to remove some of them old an eight hundred thousand land mines along the heavily fortified border on the south Korean sites where it began in the portion of the border where most gone to post ... ... troops are based
Not mine removal is a key confidence building measure agreed when the two Korean leader Kim Jong un and president Moon Jae in Met's last month in Pyongyang
Separatists in Spanish region of Catalonia have been blocking a number of road and rail links to mark the anniversary of last year as an eagle referendum on independence
Lakes or hundreds of thousands of pro independence supporters are expected to hold rallies across the region Spain's central government has offered to capitalize the chance of a referendum on race it will tell them they put notes on independence the concert on separatist government has rejected the proposal
Inside governmental Senate panel on climate change is starting a week Long Beach in South Korea to finalize a report on how to prevent global temperature from rising by one point five degrees the century the details from not grow
This report said to be the most critical and controversial study on climate change in recent years
It's critical because PCC scientists say that without rapid cuts in C. O. two missions and the switch to renewable energy the chances of keeping temperatures from rising more than one point five degrees will disappear
The study will be controversial because it also suggests the use of unproven technologies to remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere these efforts will be worth it say researchers
As it will save millions of people around the world from rising seas
The international court of justice is due to the roof today on a long running territorial disputes between Bolivia and Chitty line dropped ... hopes the decision will force Chitty to enter negotiations of transferring landed on chilies noodles and cause signed BBC News
Welcome to hard to come the b._b._c. World Service with me Stephen second my guest today is an academic who got sucked in the front line politics
And emerged with a host of scars to show for it ... wasn't economists knowing for his radical critique of the global capitalist system
When he was appointed finance minister of Greece in early twenty fifty it was a time of extraordinary economic crisis in his home country Greece was saddled with boss debts an economy in the recession and international creditors in no mood to cut the Athens government any more slack
Verify has adopted a defiant radical responds which infuriated Germany and the EU institutions and when the final showdown came Varoufakis was forced out the Syrian Government in Athens bound to you and I am a pressure
And Greece avoided bankruptcy and in many us exit from the euro three years on verify anchors is still trying to persuade Greeks and the wider world
That the ... you and the global capitalist system need radical progressive reform
But right now it's the populist right rather than the radical left
That seems to be harnessing popular and got and threatening the status quo so is the left losing the argument well ... joins me now welcome to how to
You're still play a political role you have a new political policy which you are determined to make a force in Greece and in Europe but would you accept that as a radical as a leftist the tide in Europe the tide of popular opinion is running against you
Opposite of the civilization is in the street
Where experiencing a new post more than Nineteen thirties moment the liberal establishment has made them is of it they have been insisting on policies that are failing left right and center and they are crumbling like the vitamin Republican thankfully not with me but I'm sure it's on the states yet
But we have ah the nationalist neo fascist international let these rising across Europe look up to this how Vinnie phenomenon intervene someone we're losing the battle and this is why this is a time to to group
Across a broad alliance of progressive Democrats ... left wing goes that have civilization out the hearts
Before we drill down into the detail about analysis I Do want to
Ask you whether you think is justifiable to
As so many progressive left us to use this trove about Europe today looking a little like Europe in the Nineteen thirties the historian Neal focused and address that very reason these are this absolute known since it's so lazy because if one just takes one example lettuce Italy you've just mentioned Mr solving and you talked about near fascism
The truth is that since ... came to power and I spoke to him the other day on all told he actually
Has a band and many of his more radical positions particularly on for example leaving the euro Asia
Why hasn't he has the ... the place the some of the ... button for a year and we can discuss this next year
About what his primary done is that he has used the same story line from the Nineteen thirties of promising the average badly and whose income has been put a cap it the falling for Twenty years there's no doubt about that
Too many stories but I'd back by ... him against the ... the migrant even they value and the Roma
This is exactly the same then I saw it either I just you know this isn't it isn't exactly the same as the Nineteen thirties initially didn't exactly the same day that said that both more than version of eight thankfully he said he does not that it'd be ... but the
We need to get our towns back but to get our towns in our country is back
We have to get out of Europe back because
Problems with but I have a ... a mortgages with a public way low levels of investment in good quality jobs and ... of labor markets and they can not be sort this out that the level of Italy or the lay of level of England for that matter
The level of Germany we have to look at these problems together and have a program so then
... is really important so how are you are a multilateral list and for all of your critique of the ... when you were finance minister
You seem to be saying we still need sort of multilateral even global lists solutions I come back to all of this stuff about global greed investment programs global fair trade deals global minimum living wages imposed on all
The time when you're talking to somebody who but ate it up and down in this country before the gym to hasn't been sixteen I defend them and I complain feverishly against ... and in favor of the main even though no one can accuse me of being ... Brussels but my point is because of what you're saying
They're going to choose ... with the spirit of the times people are thinking very much it
Seems in terms of nationalism in terms of their borders their security and here we are proposing all of these new multilateral extremely ambitious global et cetera
Should accept the ... that would work
In ... and just the positions of the kind of this seems to be flailing ... they would work well on the base let's have a debate about what is on the table by the way I Am a click I borrow from the best
You mentioned the ditch than the national guard and see that's not my idea this was John Maynard Keynes in the bedroom was conference signed for the phone while they just hung out I think they should be more exactly but that's what we must do similarly if I waste is we
We must do we've just discussing for much of this interview the problems facing the European Union because frankly have a democratic deficit ... looking at it as if they don't recognize legitimacy I mean you institution wasn't that hey you let me out we being some sort of a global institution that sets up its own currency who who we
Let let me answer the question inmate seizing nine to ... our movement is going to stand or the European Parliament elections and we're going to stand in Greece we're going to stand with our friends and colleagues in that in most of the time that the if it's part of they were going to stand in Poland with a feminist to lead a
Political progressive particles that are ... we're going to Iran in elections in it against me that's who we are and our challenge is how to create and not at the end of inclusive and as I knew that this completely human they stick on the nationalist and ...
And you just laid out that you're going to fight in elections and let's face it you said you're a Democrat and you're going to walk
The walk as well as talk talk and I respect that but if if one looks at current polling
And you say well when you your why the movement has been around for a couple of years but you on you so the
Fact you're from scoring virtually zero in the polls will let that ... owned by the way and get a ... we'll let you know this is bankrupt lead for an hour they want to figure out what all they want to get to is
This the only country in Europe right now where the land in its more radical form is actually doing well or at least gaining traction with a significant part of the population is in the United kingdom and if so what makes an you know the u._k. very well want in your view makes
Jeremy cool Britain's Labour Party different
From so many of the other
Left movements in Europe and across the world today
What Brexit has had to do with it because ... has been a slap in the face of progressive independently of what their view about Brexit is what I mean I was gonna say labor party view and breakfast is extraordinarily confused so I I ... down fusing issue if you're not confused when you're facing a confusing issue you're fanatic
But given the Kobus position on bricks that remains even off the Labour Party conference unclear I Can't see how bricks it can be the driver of the moments undoubtedly
You said it was it create that ... in this country that British democracy and its role in the world
And not be taken for granted it means to be invented let's look at look at the the bad side this gives the people who have Britain and the port unity do what they consider their position in the world and I believe that the judge me has been doing a very good job
Or a recognizing that the last ... years of privatization of moving towards a business model that effectively tied the economy's growth on two bottles on the housing bubble and on the city of London and he's closing the assessment of they even with that or is
Interesting and so you would say because you talked about last generation of politicians in the u._k. who in your view played that sort of near liberal economic ... you would say the Tony Blair was in no way are left of center politician would you
What does it mean on the one hand he was because he gave a lot of money to the national health service money that they thought he said stop the national health service off but at the very same time
He did it by aligning himself fully with the city of London turning a blind eye to the private money man thing of the private banks and creating the circumstances that lead to less than an eight and to the collapse into housing
I'm not done all the the the current shadow chancellor of the sticker here in the case has made a big speech where he's painted a picture of a radical economic program including just one example the man the tree imposition on business in the u._k. ever need to have
Ten percent of ... given to the workers in the company the dividends would then go to those workers and
That would be a cap on the amount of dividends to be received by each worker and the access beyond that would go to the government so it actually is a huge new corporate tax it would fundamentally change the relationship between the states and the corporate sector in the u._k. in a very sort of left of center way
Do you really believe the British people are going to vote for that
I think so and I'm very glad to have hut or John Macdonald put forward there have been proposing angle so McDonnell about the program we eras things you've been saying society proposing precisely that
With one difference I've been proposing the creation of a social but fund where the ten percent of the ... says I'll say every ... or capitalizing by corporations go into the public will fund
And then the dividends are distributed to the former universal basic didn't
Whereas the Labour Party is leaving them up amongst the workers within those corporations but what I think is very important to remember this is not even need the money factor yet this is part of the Labour Party conference it may go into the manufacturers hope it does if he's a very interesting discussions are that we must have even thought it must have
About the division between competed and labor but it differently statement once upon a time when and that sort of both the machine the machine lumped industrialist and then the investors who claimed that profits of the machine produced for the company but these days of Google and Facebook
When every time you such and your Google Search engine for something you're providing capital to Google and no one is getting a defense for that except for Google we have to reconsider that property rights over the dance of capital and live that everybody is the only party in the world that he's doing these okay
So for you definitely UK labor party represents a beacon of hope but throughout this interview you've been saying we must do this we must do that and I've been pointing out that actually in the real world and the world of politics and opinion polls your ideas are not gaining very much traction if we leave aside the United kingdom so I disagree with you is
Is there any way I look at some point say to yourself you know what democratic politics doesn't what we're going to find new ways one labor MP ... and she said recently and there's no such that we need to topple the government if we can't do it at the ballot box we will do it with a general strike by working with the trade unions is that your kind of full
Of what's actually assigned has nothing to go to the last time I checked illegal immigrants and he's right now that your view on when you're all kinds of politics needs to go
... ... let's be very clear to because these are dangerous times with their eyes of extremists around the world and we have to be very clear in our language and the the way that we support democracy
So to answer that gay I'm going to quote from with some church for
The Democratic process is pretty awful it's pretty nasty but it's the best of all of a sudden there's and we have to be prepared to defend it with our lives I think that this would be the faithful would answer to your question now where the strikes are part of the political democratic process I Do believe
That they are and I'm like no we have to end a lot of factors I thank you very much for being on how to thank you [noise]
Distribution of the b._b._c. World Service in the United states is made possible by American public media
Producer and distributor of award winning public radio content ATM American public media with support from home advisor matching homeowners with home improvement professionals for a variety of home projects for minor repairs to major role models
Homeowners can read reviews of local pros and book appointments online at home advisor dot com
From Boston University this is Ninety point nine W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR News station with the latest news and analysis that there'll be you'd be
... dot org
To begin with talking about one hundred square meter but then they're talking about in the next twenty or even longer term
To salvage square kilometer so that's really huge in terms of a geographic website is he going to end the existing Beijing and what's going to be in it they're talking about lots of functions to be the centralized from Beijing for example
Made okay to universities as state owned businesses some of the government to sectors and all the public service
[noise] back
In ... self I stepped into the offices of one of them many local consultancy he's aiming to cash in [noise] every couple of greens have shown way told me about the consultancy that he set up to attract businesses and cut his planned mega city
... ... more than one half say they don't have to practice with around here and contests private companies
She got more than a hundred new companies sounds extraordinary what is the ... when will this city
The boat and we bought a ton of who you can choose your your to finish the construction in five years and the core center or be as large as one hundred square kilometer Tom are you going to get rich as a result who has said yes I Know [noise]
He's saying that with a twinkle in his eye [noise]
Back out on the street now headed off in such off this new show and
Where exactly is it [noise]
While we just um [noise] because [noise]
My vehicles will be a
And I'm looking out across gigantic brown seal land up close in front of me has been shown up it's been mentioned over to stop the dust from flying off into faces [noise]
It's clearly the stars of some kind of construction but
Right now there's absolutely nothing here [noise]
By that what's your name pizza you ... you are a private construction here in this area what are we looking at here what's this going to become nine day off what'd you
Say this is a construction area a temporary official office but when we are going to build officially nobody knows because we're waiting for the instruction from the garden [noise]
So this has just been flattened this area but right now nobody knows what exactly is going to have [noise]
Some uh some local ... I Believe our hearts and minds our party made decisions things will happen
Whose land was this before or
Did have a better
Place was used to be really just
What happened to the villages was last year I Will you go out we had a meeting later I can talk more
With that he wrote the nervously hopped into a car unfinished talk of full three locations around the ... in this area villages evicted from their homes phones with little or no compensation perhaps the real question
Is what all of this is fool will ... actually deliver on the dream of showing and the new green city
... again from the University of North Carolina
This is a really top down planning project in that politically that has high profile you
Have studied over the last two or three decades all of the range of these infrastructure project Cal said yeah I'm is another one isn't it a port in northern China championed by Hu Jintao or a former prime yet but it's come to nothing I mean there have been white elephants as well as success stories in China
Yeah tell me Dan was to become an ecological zero sort of emission poster child but it didn't really succeed
Are there are many reasons behind it but a shoreline this case just keep in mind that we didn't the next couple of years I think the government definitely has the capacity to relocate many of the state owned business is
To this new area so it's a little bit different from the other big new projects in China this one is really read top down
Because he ... and the ... report came out a year ago nobody seemed to be happening just then since those days are the government has issued more plants ... prove this does seem to remains slow the
... city planner for showing a new district uh he he ... he's the city planning gee he said that they will range of environmental problems in the area including a high flooding risk and poor access to transportation this is what he said in the speech
If these two problems and not to be solved it will be like building a ... no rubbish tip you meet the ... the government brought up for this new town
Well Gabriel will ... is the Shanghai bureau chief for the Financial Times he went to the site recently this is what he so
It's definitely still early days for this mega project I visited when they were just completing the centerpiece of the first day the film on public service Centre and that is a kind of mini city within it maybe that include electric cars charging stations and
Sensors are based on than recognition twenty thousand sensors around the whole city is a future hotel that would include human being free checking they planted thousands of trees around the dancer but beyond that a public servant center is still quite
A quite barren with basically still be able to read an almond trees surrounding the central service center
Well George magnets is still with us to discuss this and indeed the wider infrastructure plans
Basically this is the point is that the China has this record has done for twenty thirty forty years it's been to spend its way through rocky times it will spend money on the big planning projects and it's gained a large dividend out of doing that
It has a historically um something changed in a two thousand they actually use the financial crisis in the west
Started to send ripples through China um and uh it was actually a time when the Chinese economy itself was actually go for a little bit of its own kind of tipping point
So really what's happening in the last ten years in particular I say
That the the Chinese government has actually relied on infrastructure for two reasons one to offset downturns in the economy so every time they called him he looks like it's looking a little bit worldly I'm you get ... to build more infrastructure intellect more money to infrastructure projects in provinces and local governments
Are on the other is because they they really believe this um the rhetoric about a ... and leads to you know better growth that you see huge contentious issue because some of us believe actually the sequencing works the other way round that actually you get better urbanized ... from having good growth model
Cars actually if it was a simple than every what you need for groceries just build big cities
Plus of course as a ... a declining yields from building more things you can't go on building things forever and it wasn't always give you the same time that it did it the ...
Yes indeed and I think again you know like so many things in China and everything is so new on so if you look at China's a residential buildings and its infrastructure ahead of population of course it's still some way behind Japan
A soul in in Asia or you know American cities in European cities but um you know as ... that kind of famous British economist once said in the long run we're all dead
And what we have to be concerned about really is about the missile allocation of capital in the short term which actually can lead to you know empty apartment blocks coast cities and I'm actually quite a lot of problem
And it can also leader goals to huge amounts of public debt ... how big is Chinese public debt well
Uh it is about ... at the end of two thousand Seventeen was around three hundred and fifty percent of its national income which is just over three times as big as it was ten years ago
That sounds like a very big number it is a big number I mean we don't really know to be fat where the the there is any magical number at which point you know a crisis ensues but certainly the the miss allocation of resources
The cumulative increase its difficulties which smaller Chinese banks are facing um funding that loads of what they have to raise deposits and
If they can't raise them from households they are raising them from increasingly a new voter tall and uncertain short term sources and I think these things are contrived to to bring about kind of some uncertainty now
You've written a book called red flags I mean how much jeopardy is China or in from ... and other risks
Well I think I'm trying to doctors and the only problem joined the faces that it's also facing you know kind of a confluence of lots of problems aging
And you know technology um currency stability and so on the difference that I think uh the last few years of made is that Xi Jinping's governance system has changed China
I mean now I'm not clear whether you know intensely autocratic society with top down guidance and control is the most efficient
That's it that's all we have time for Joe ... new book red flags why she's China is in jeopardy you can get it in a local bookstore but that said today's business daily or will be back tomorrow [noise]
Fifty nine in the morning this match ends at ten o'clock don't let it slip through your fingers we want to take full advantage of it we want to raise the thirty eight thousand dollars that we need to raise between now and then to make sure to to make sure that we're on track to raise the money it takes
To keep bringing you the news so that we can be your eyes and ears
On began hill on Capitol Hill to the Pentagon at the Supreme Court where the new term starts today
Without a without a justice Brett Kavanaugh because his nomination is of course
Still up in the air story we're going to continue to cover all week long as the FBI investigation into Brett Kavanaugh is due to be finished on friday you count on WB you are to cover that story but all the stories that are in the news we're asking you
If we can count on you now we want your pledge we want to know that you're behind a supporting the news we'd like you to dial one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven the floods line and give their or give an adult UV or dot org and I were to go now in this match it ends at ten help us out thanks a lot [noise]
We invented journalism now and get entered into how the remaining price declines in our phone fundraiser including today fries and aren't grand prize your choice of a twenty Nineteen super fast track or outback provided by city side to prove Belmont
Gives now in WVU are died or work home one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven
Boston University or listening to Ninety point nine W. B. U. R. FM Boston home of Boston's largest radio news rum
Ninety two point seven ... eighty nine point one WVU wage Brewster and streaming at W. B. U. R. dot org you'll be you are all students NPR News station
But I'm Jonathan eyes on Indian easiest disaster response agency has confirmed to the BBC that none of the country is to know me to take the boys was working before all the island to sort of way she was struck by an earthquake and tsunami on friday
Move an eight hundred people are concerned that but that figure is expected to rise or Asia Pacific editor senior hadn't has more details
After ... was struck by a devastating sitting out in the in two thousand and four this sophisticated detection boys were donated by Germany the United states and Malaysia
And then in twenty sixteen another earthquake revealed that the system wasn't working the government promised to repair over place at
The following friday six meters tsunami waves and disaster agency spokesperson told the BBC's Indonesian service that is an army detection boys were no longer in operation adding to systems Twenty one floating detection unit had been damaged by vandals or had been stolen
Engine easiest dissolves the agency has appealed for more heavy lifting equipment and trained to rescue workers to help in the search for survivors on the way I see many parts of the coastline of being destroyed and the number of areas outside the main city of Paul do have yet to receive any help hotel owner in ... screaming could still be heard from beneath the rubble Rebecca ... is that
Road travel he's very skeptical that the landslide in the hill without he at the airport remain closed off track they have found that the ... says now unless noticed ... which is also making rescue F had difficulty
Community members he said that they bony heel among the rabble people who are still missing and you can now seeking posing forties here and they don't have anything to do anything about it
Because the ages from the United states and Canada have concluded talks on reforming the north American free trade agreement which also includes Mexico it's the outcome of negotiations initiated by President Trump who considered the original arrangement unfair to the U.S under walk reports
Us into Mexico have already agreed and you trade deal now kind of has to there are several changes that President Trump wanted it will be more difficult for carmakers to use components and materials from outside the area from China for example if they should transport vehicles Terry free into the U.S
Farmers in the U.S will have better access to credit is highly regulated dairy market for each ... Canada has assurances that it will be protected if the U.S imposes new tariffs on car imports the agreement will have to be approved by the U.S Congress before it comes into fool's
This year's Nobel Prize for medicine has been awarded jointly to James Allison from the United states and ... from Japan but the research on how to fight cancer using the body's immune system the Nobel academy in Sweden said immune checkpoints therapy and revolutionized cancer treatment
BBC News almost Indians in the west bank Gaza and East Jerusalem holding a general strike in support of Arab Israelis protesting against the controversial nation state law that Israel recently introduced
Most Indian businesses government offices schools and universities to because throughout the day the new law declares that only Jews have the right to self determination in Israel
Police in Germany have arrested six men suspected of involvement in a filing far rights group the men are believed to have carried out an attack on foreigners in the eastern city of cabinet last month prosecutors believed it was in preparation for a larger scale attack this week
Japan's largest warship become like a helicopter carrier sailed into slang 'cause Columbus ... on a goodwill visit the ... is a sculpted by destroying the deployment is seen as took his response to the growing Chinese influence in the Indian Ocean region
And one of France's most popular singing Charles ... has died he was Ninety four as the ball was born in Paris to Armenian immigrants and was acting at the age of eleven but in Nineteen forty one he teamed up with another doctor to write songs
Throughout his career which spanned over Seventy is as more recorded more than twelve hundred songs in eight languages you want to count award for acting but his trademark is bittersweet balance and which I think Kobe looks back at an unlikely heartthrob
We may be the fish ... claimed his shortcomings included his voice his lifetime his lack of let's say about this five feet three inches tall
Performer was once voted by online readers of time magazine it's being because an Elvis it was he just PF who encouraged him to perform songs he often tried to retire but she's found wouldn't
Let him punish them keep 'em singing until he for [noise]
BBC News protecting independent journalism is important to all of us debt Becker explains
Think protecting independent journalism is protecting local
Pleasant as incredibly important especially as news arms are shrinking I think it up to the wire
We are allowed to do that are often given the time and the support to be able to pursue those enforcement of her story started matter to me to
Protect independent journalism become a sustaining member right now there's help protect independent
Journalism by supporting local journalism by supporting international journalism the b._b._c. or listening to right now by dialing the number taking two minutes and making the gift of a contribution in any amount at eight hundred one eight hundred
Nine zero nine nine to eight seven or by giving any amount at W. B. U. R. dot or what we stress any amount because we're really a running very close to a deadline now we have a very generous match on the table from contributing listeners here do will you be you are
Members of the W. B. you are a Edward Murrow society they're
Adding fifty percent to every pledge up until ten o'clock this morning so now only fifty three minutes left in this in
Between now and then in order to keep this W. B. U. R. fall a fundraiser on track we want to raise another thirty seven thousand dollars so we're asking you BBC listeners right now to step up to the plate
Support the b._b._c. support all the news on WB you are by telling us what it's worth to you in the form of the gift of a pledge one eight hundred
Nine zero nine nine to eight seven is a number to call or give it do you be you are dot org ... she with Jay Clayton and the endless threads Emory secrets and
Hey good morning Bob so we're down to thirty six thousand I Believe the number is now so we're making progress but we have just about fifty one minutes in which to do that so you know on the one hand that can sound a little like oh my gosh thirty six thousand dollars and fifty one minute
I get that it's it's it's a lot but when you think about all of the people out there listening with you if everyone together comes together right now and and and says you know what this news matters to me programming like the BBC like MORNING EDITION that we just heard this matters to me I'm going to do my part
Or whatever the amount is that feels comfortable to you is going to go a long way right now we can only reach this thirty six thousand dollars if people realize that they are part of this community that keeps this radio station going one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven is the number to call a pick any amount and just do it right now
A few more people did realize it because now we're down to thirty five thousand dollars to go but uh we have to do that by ten o'clock it is
Nine minutes after nine o'clock here in Boston so
This is the time to do it it's the only match that we're going to have today members of our Merle society are going to put fifty percent more on top of whatever you can give the w._b. you are and what you're doing when you give is you're protecting independent journalism you're providing the kind of independent journalism
Are trapped under the earthquake it wasn't bad enough that was the suit on me on top of that but evidence emerging the uh the many people may have had a warning that that was coming
Yeah said there were any reports that the uh the warning system wasn't functioning properly and today the meaning has the
And I was working before friday's a quake and tsunami
Experts helping voicing criticism saying that it's heartbreaking to see all these lives being lost when the system could have seen that
Basically they were supposed to be installed properly off to the the last major earthquake in two thousand and four a when a hundreds of thousands of people in Indonesia Elaine lost their lives
Off of the ... but the government to kill the funding to
Maintain the systems so it has been damaged and they went maintained properly and as a result when that when the earthquake hit on friday evening and they didn't the alarm system wasn't working and expect city that it could have saved many lives
Maybe she's ... or their own roots to a new well let's turn out to be married to be the head of the international committee of the red cross is
A delegation in Chicago to Indonesia thanks very much for for being with us or just tell us about what you'll be able to do at the moment and how much aid and medical supplies are you managing to get in
A weird to see or a focusing or support to the Indonesian ... gross
A resident dispatch a staff and the
Relief supplies to the few uh we're focusing mostly on the restoration off the contacts between family members uh we're also focusing on
The uh management of the debt and the the big enough for forensic services and the uh the uh the cross is trying to a dispatch a
The relief supplies food water
Shelter and a a a a
Sleeping man from Jeddah games in ... and the other end of it I did as well as it is quite difficult
Because of their lives and destroyed the roads but resources to being mobilized
To make sure that the assistance arrive to the effect is that they shouldn't be I'm
Well how ... how are you going to do that and how long how long do you think it's going to take
A we're a dispatching ends up being dispatched to either a bike seat
Or a bike lane at the at the end for the is
A ... or you meant that in a car goes as so are the these are not cross is focusing on that
Are understandably a this will take the time but already some of it uh has arrived
And the the teams that are working on a forensic services are also providing a lot of the votes to fill out the shop to people from underneath a the rubble
And that will require some heavy rescue ... heavy lifting equipment weren't so
That that is correct yes
All that all the places where no one has managed to reach yeah
Well uh for the for the time being a I can say that uh
The assistance focusing on on a urban areas and mean cities but it's not only about that uh that on many places of uh in specifically
I didn't want that hadn't uh been access accessible yet a little is being known for example
About a ... uh the uh
Because of what else which isn't because of uh the uh the suction up the communication lines
So uh uh the
General situation on the ground or a is expected to ah to change and even to become a worse as assessments continuing as a idiot said become more and more accessible
And in other words the number of dead will will suddenly rise
I assume that we have to expect the we have to expect that a week or something they cannot predict a a number a but a definitely a the or the number will it will increase
Okay thank you very much into for talking to marry or the ... the ... concept in Indonesia and you're listening to music
Were funded by you our listeners and by E N D serrano engaged in the discovery development and delivery of medicines for patients with difficult to treat diseases like multiple sclerosis infertility and cancer more it EMT serrano dot com
Or W. B. U. R. relies on you to protect the independent journalism but what exactly does that mean magnet chalk her body explain
It means asking politicians and business leaders what does that clause mean what does that decision that you just made me who's going to feel the impact
Of what you want to do and in Boston WBUR Uighur has the largest radio news rooms and the ability and the obligation to ask those questions of those people that's what we need to protect protect
Independent journalists become a sustaining member right now you're out [noise] dial the number support the news before your opportunity to take advantage of a very nice match or that we have on the table this
Morning comes to an end the phone number to call is one eight hundred
Nine zero nine nine to eight seven or give it to W. B. U. R. and this fall fundraiser at W. B. U. R. dot org
Here's we're talking about in relation to the match if you just tuned in knowing that it's a Monday morning knowing that it's a sleepy Monday morning generous listeners will put up money and unlimited amount of money depending on you know it would be in it it's all it all revolves around
How much we can raise and they're going to add fifty percent that every gift that we get in the form of a pledge but it ends it's been going on for a couple of hours now it ends and thirty four minutes or ten o'clock we have thirty one thousand dollars that we'd like to raise between now in ten take
Three hundred dollars that away or four hundred five hundred or take ten or Fifteen dollars a month to weigh in the form of a sustaining pledge by dialing eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven
Yeah and the sustaining pledges are matched as well matched fifty percent as well so if you can give ten dollars a month right now that is going to become Fifteen dollars a month for the next year if you can give twenty dollars a month that's going to become thirty dollars a month
So why not do it now when your money is going to go even farther we've got thirty one thousand dollars that were hoping to raise in the next thirty three minutes it's an ambitious goal but it's one that we know we can accomplish
If everyone out there listening right now steps up to the plate and says okay you know what I rely on WB you are I've got to do my part to do this and when you give at that small amount it when you give a small amount each month and you become a sustaining member
You don't have to think about whether he's supported WB you are or not right we just it's just kind of a set it and forget
You're taking care of and the whole system works one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven at the number to call or go to W. B. U. R. dot org
And if you're listening thinking boy then I Hope those people give
You are those people right you're you're that person you're listening right now you probably woke up listening WB you are maybe you'll get to catch some of the programs during the day
Certainly catch all things considered in the evening to you know just keep following all the news because it just keeps coming at us and we're able to slow it down and help you understand that
Because we don't stop for commercials but that means we also don't get revenue from commercials we fund our news programming primarily with contributions from our listeners that is why it's so important to give in so advantageous to give
During these last few minutes of the match this morning and is the only match that we're going to have today
We thank the members of the Mars Society for putting that money up as a little edition of yours specifically
Fifty percent added on top of whatever you were able to give right now but take advantage of it because it is the only matched today that number to call is one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven one eight hundred
Nine zero nine nine to eight seven or you can get in on the match but only until ten o'clock about thirty three minutes from now
You can do it at W. B. U. R. dot O. R. G.
It's eight twenty nine excuse me it's nine twenty nine in the morning so really thirty one they're going to have to go and we need to raise thirty thousand dollars
In that half hour plus one one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to age seven is the number to call or give it do you ... you know just thinking about the stories that we brought you in the last week the the sorrow a uninterrupted coverage of the Senate hearing
Last week in the uh
Uh in the Brett Kavanaugh's nomination you know we we took
Almost a full day of fundraising out
Because we knew how important it was do you do hear uninterrupted coverage we took a risk in doing that and what we're asking you to do right now is to give a little back to give a little back for the thorough coverage that you get on do you view are for the thoughtful stuff that you hear all the time
Nine to eight seven before this blood runs out or give at W. B. U. R. dot org you know how important this moment is in terms of of the news that you listen to on WB you are the trade dispute or now the international trade agreement between the U.S and Canada the b._b._c. was just talking about
The uh the continuing fight over the cabin on nomination in the Senate the Supreme Court nomination
You hurt our coverage last week as the FBI investigates this week we're going to stay on top of that for you all week the interesting moment locally with Senator Elizabeth Warren now openly considering whether to run for president or not it's an important time in we're asking for your help
And supporting our efforts to cover all these stories and more with your gift of apply it while it goes further because of the match one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven
And of course we have the mid term elections coming up and this is you know this is when WB you are
Really has to kick things into high gear to make sure that you know what are the races have you know what races are happening who is running
A introduce you to the candidates and and really try to unpack some of the issues here the ballot questions everything that's coming up it takes money
To bring you the independent journalism that you rely on and and we know that you rely on it and we know that you value it because you're listening to it right now W. B. U. R. has a role in your life already it means something to you already
Now it's time to figure out you know what you can do
For us you've already you know made space for us in your life and we play that important role make space for us in your budget you decide the amount it's really important that you do it right now as Bob Said we're trying to raise about
Twenty seven thousand dollars in the next ill Nineteen Eighteen or Nineteen Minutes here we know that we can do it but you just have to figure out what you can do for WB you are to keep a strong for you to keep us
As that important resource as we you know unpack all of the news together one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven
Eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven that's the number to call one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven
Exactly Nineteen Minutes left to raise now twenty six thousand dollars
Nineteen Minutes left for you to have your contribution be worth fifty percent more than the amount that you give thanks to members of the Mars Society but but again it's the only match we're going to have today and it ends in now just Eighteen minutes so now's the time to go to the wherever the phone
And you know think about all the things that Bob you were talking about the ... trade wars
The U.S Supreme Court nomination of Brett Kavanaugh the mid term elections coming up
Big big decisions that affect both the short term and the long term
As a response to that make sure that you and our entire community have this source of independent journalism in both the short term in the long term and the best way to do that is to give just a little bit each month a little bit that's worth fifty percent more right now
When you put that money that you give together with the match you money from the Mars Society only Eighteen minutes left
So give us a call the number is one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven and the website is W. B. U. R. dot O. R. G.
Seventeen minutes left now before the match ends at ten o'clock this morning twenty five thousand dollars to raise in Seventeen minutes
It's a tall order but not if you help if you give us whatever the news is worth to you and you do it right now you'll help bring that total down and you'll send a message to other people as they hear the number dropping that will encourage them to pledges well she'll be the capitalist one eight hundred
Nine zero nine nine to eight seven or given WVU our daughter you know are you one of those people ah who in the last few months are innocent especially in the last couple of weeks
Activated to get involved in politics because of what's going on right now well you know how thorough coverage has been help pay for us to keep doing that for you as we run up to the midterms and then even beyond that by giving us an amount of money that the news is worth
That is right one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven and I get it it's really easy to assume that other people are going to take care of that you know to say a donating nuts for my next door neighbor the problem with that line of thinking is that if you let other people do this
They might be letting other people do that if you think that other people are going to contribute this money no one will contribute this money it starts with you
It starts with you saying you know what yes I rely on WB you are for my political coverage for my you know and my culture and arts and information for the economist in the opinion page for the common health blog for and if I education coverage Boston on next business coverage
And of course the international news that we're hearing right now from the BBC One eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven is the number to call and say that matters to me I'm going to be a part of the w._b. white community and do my part one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven
Fifteen minutes left in the only matched for today your contribution will be worth Fifteen a fifty percent more if you get it to us in the next Fifteen minutes we've got twenty three thousand dollars to go to just decide what part of that you can get in to protect the independent journalism
The number to call is one eight hundred nine zero nine nine eight seven one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven and you can give on line that W. B. U. R. dot org last chance now to get in on that match
Where does it bother you our listeners and bug brilliant or conflict free diamond engagement rings wedding rings and vintage fine jewelry on line to really get hurt dot com and their Newbury Street show
Wasn't available to no
End in Boston presenting today's every evening with Shannon malaria
Live off on NBC ten uses six
In ... in the Boston book festival in partnership with W. B. U. R. twelve or Thirteen company square two hundred fifty authors kids events workshops music all free bus to books down or [noise]
It was a strange fact but despite being landlocked Bolivia maintains a navy and practices to patrol the country's rivers and its section of like ... ... split with
Peru but as soon as statement of intent Bolivia wants to recover a section of specific coastline
So didn't last too chilly more than a hundred and fifty years ago today the international court of justice is due to rule on the dispute Lawrence Blair is a journalist and author of a hundred and fifty years of solitude Bolivia's dreams of the sea and joins me now from a ton of ... and
Bolivia good to have you with us on the program tell us a little about a little about the history of this land dispute this was coastline lost in the wool
Shore yeah that's right you know a hundred and fifty five years ago
A chili invaded nose in Bolivia right let me call in sick sick than Libya
Without its coastline loosely the comic which mineral rich rich area or a tree and ready since then the country has been hung up on this issue you know if you still have the right large navy a day after the every
March when bad schoolchildren Smith teaches parade through the streets calling for for the ...
It's a very emotional standing grievance which is why
I Believe you wrote this case five years ago
And how likely is Bolivia to to win this case I mean my understanding this is really just about to get in Chile to to restart negotiations
Fast right at the James events with actually with the territory to achieve that if the rules for big I buy in to say about it even on like the the Libya session in the courts
Today in Bolivia especially given the president's morale is has been promising for many months now that Libya will soon returned to see
A that said that the Libyan might try and bring some uh some sense of victory out of the courtroom if it mentions recommend recommend even ... even in an informal way
But the two countries keeps okay
Would have to be made in the ... have Bolivia's neighbors all for them to think of the way of concession some access to the Pacific
Yes I mean for the the the war in the eighties seventies all on the same site is finished yet I was actually given a chunk of surgery on on the east coast to Libya uh area code believe you are
However I think we are fighting for territory
And that's what I out of the way in terms of Libya's export needs
Um that's really in Bolivia has had stuff in stops all over the over the decades centuries presidents have come and gone and talks about it and that's what he will fully beers a day but I Will say well the results would be a it'll continue smoking has been great
But I don't really go that far I think the biggest obstacle is the fact that I can sort of a ... like a really hot and sent to recent polls are opposed sweaty session of territory so I think that they get something for
Just a brief intrigued by the title of your ... your dreams of the city how has the list shades Libyan national audience too
