Is about the size of a shoe box and we'll move around a real good asteroid by hoping touched the b._b._c. news
[noise]
Can I ask myself and makes you a topic that I had to go or van de ... advice in the shower anymore [noise]
This is a remarkable story of survival
Get huge studio lot of things which is going to continue usa and then they get ... didn't see them anymore and we didn't smell manning ma
Story of strength and the fish determination
Again not to say story when I'm telling you it is ... and plenty of hope and ties because once you gave up hope that you wouldn't know that you when you get into that [noise]
I might lunch and I mean this program on the b._b._c. world surveys or be hearing the story of a small group of mostly dumps Jewish children who lived through the hell of a Nazi concentration
Camp this book and belts and [noise] they were found malnourished disease but to live by the British Army who liberated the camp in April Nineteen forty five
... is one of the ... children she's now eighty eight years old
And she spends much of her time speaking about her own field in the camp where more than fifty thousand other prisoners perished along side ... I'll be piecing together the story of what happened to her and the other youngsters
The children of battles and I'll be listening not just to hit these memories and thoughts today
But also to what she said to a BBC reporter when he interviewed her in the ... just shortly after liberation more than Seventy years ago [noise]


Nowadays the original site to ... here in Germany is a peaceful place to visit
There is no sign of the original barracks the guard posts will DSS buildings or the piles of both days just tools trees and open fields dosage with headstones in Moneim wants to read here live five thousand unknowns that he lied two thousand five hundred
When the British Army into the ... for the fifteenth Nineteen forty five they were met by scenes of tests despair and take rotation I found
But in the world of a nightmare dead bodies some of them in decay lay strewn about the road and along the rocket tracks the dead and dying lake house together
The BBC's Richard ... a company to put your soldiers as they made their way through the ...
I think my way or the corps officer corps in the ... until I heard one voice the rose above the gentle undulating moaning
I found a girl she was living ... impossible to gauge at age four she had practically no had left on my head and have faced was only a yellow ... cheat with two holes in it for our eyes
She must stretching out has stick of an arm and gossiping something it was English English medicine medicine
Symbol is hammering descriptions painted the picture so horrific that some of his editors back in London couldn't or didn't want to believe them and now the BBC reporter Patrick Gordon Walker also sent dispatches from the ...
Thousands of inmates because they're still had a specific value for the U.S has so it was a very specific context and the inmates should survive in order to be used for those of us
In the end only around two thousand five hundred Jewish exchange prisoners
Were ever swapped and allowed to leave Germany during the whole his his parents bride their weight to bell some
Of the exchange prisoners with once they're there was still send to work all day long side the other prisoners it was a brutal unforgiving regime has he remembers the even the children were made to stand for hours in the open air
To be counted each day what type of the weather
And the sending their family down
For four hours for seats for eight and one day for nine in the airplane rain snow storm that even now that allow to see done enough grounds many details front of us that their team then
Things was for getting worse and food conditions was Rudy very bad
They say that they that normal people ... says he can
Be taught to a um brown super lined brown bones that sent me going to the day and ...
... eating at the Boulder brown suit and was the actual super was just
As I said was more to avoid him they can't floating in Tennessee matching the main six foot tall they got the same Haitian like me and imagine if things don't then they died fish of hungry
It's impossible to comprehend how frightening it must have been for the teenage ... these these particular account of those early days in ... to the BBC's Patrick go walk or
On the bus feel out of I Will not as what what did your parents have to do
Minus five that has any show will suffer with my father what she's that tree and my mother what in the kitchen one's own if you'd almost at what time did your mother have to get up on that I or any now at three o'clock at night
We do have knee guys you're never got enough to eat now they're having a ... we suffered a terrible hunger we had to scrapes around for the remains of the food and the empty finish cattle together with twenty five other person is
On those of us never fixed as they can tell me what was the worst thing that you saw the cap
That my father has that I that
The time my father was fighting to Scott's around his neck the Germans came and said aha these guys we cannot tolerate they come here and they each took one end to stop and they lifted him off the fill trying to hang him with his own sky and say I think Michelle [noise]
Hunger disease fallen punishment still counts by the ss rural parts of the daily hell of life in Belgium
Food became the most important thing literally a matter of life and death
No matter so they're down ...
For ... for ... and the gyms yeah on a cell phone one little teaspoons you could buy a house that they asked solidly something they needed we had no solving their food and for ten months ahead now it sounds
As the war ended its final year things were about to get worse the head seeing her family
[noise]
Humid Nineteen forty for just a Nazi project of mass deportation of Europe's Jews continue the group of dots Jewish diamonds merchants and their families
Were brought to ... like the exchange prisoners the diamond much and we'll see as a valuable commodity by the Nazis bills and historian told must raw
The official explanation so to say is that there were ... recalls a diamond industry should be brought up here in Jacksonville
My personal opinion is that the main reason is boss that though the U.S has tried to put pressure on these diamond work as a diamond traders in order to get perhaps diamonds they still hadn't Switzerland
And it's got better treatment than the rest of the prisoners double Russians know forced labor seeing this hit these files or an uncle persuaded the ss that they too could help establish a domino effect treat and belts and and so they joined the dominant workers group
It was a decision that would change the family's fate by the end of that same year
It'll become clear that the dominant much will not willing to give and the thing up to the Nazis offer them any sort of help and so the ss punish them with deportation out to ...
At first the man they later on false will be when the mothers were brought into other concentration comes commendable desserts and holes in the woman married to a campaign beat off as a penalty
His parents were caught up in this collective punishment but she liked to told Patrick Gordon Walker
That amount that somebody who is
Your mother for instance what happened to her
Neither will the effect for five my mother tried to life and had at the bottom of economic
She drove all went away oh she was taken away
That can never taken away from their nurtured by the ... guys just have a lot of them you know the ... my mother away a drive away from the ... and Joe father's Ninety five is that my father went to a a day and yet and my mother says that for five of them
AT T and her little brothers could only look on helplessly as they were separated from their parents
And I find that event in these cases in my mind and the kiss my brothers and then they sat me down and you ... take care of your mind and your practice for me
In my mind right there next they share
Leave ... to ... and ... and let her go and I didn't God because I have to be some from I ... the leash
On that if you go to it and then now they can but we didn't know where they have a [noise]
It is to to Julia my took her to do before but she still clearly very affected by hearing these titles again
Go um
He has not may soon arrived and listen to us and plenty she grow up like five ... my two brothers me my parents
My mother and his two brothers live I have talked about it but I was voted out my my grandparents and my grandparents constantly you know we didn't have or having coffee out with friends [noise] whole life to do that
Now is any little thing I knew about ... this is very [noise]

Around faulty also youngsters were left behind when the time and much switch transported from ... ... and her two younger brothers among them no one seems to have known what to do with them the children would have been of no use in Nazi labor camps elsewhere and
So they were piled onto two trucks and eventually driven to another part of the ... and they're in the middle of the night the Nazi driver tended to move to a young woman opposed is Jewish prisoner named blooper
Ceased to less than that to our they're either and she said but what shall I Do read to kill him and he said they can go to have like you are likely to huge and chill and any of
A new chapter of their own deal was about to begin separated from their parents
None of them knew what the future would hold your only fourteen or Fifteen what can you go where you
See my dad again for one and then what do you don't want to die
At this thing
Off to the break I'll be traveling to the side to the former Nazi complex bergenfield some with hep C and her family
To see the first time where she and the other Jewish children ended up living for the next four months where they were fed them protected by sister loop until the British arrived to free them [noise]
Distribution of the b._b._c. World Service in the U.S has made possible by American public media
Producer and distributor of award winning public radio content with support from hacker one healthy organizations reduce the risk of a cyber security incidents by partnering with trusted hackers to find and fix software vulnerabilities before criminals
Dot com [noise]
From Boston University this is Ninety point nine W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR News station with the latest news and analysis I W. B. U. R. dot org [noise]
... says his went on for a living you when you when you're right yeah you when he saw you relax valve ensure
Julius was barely three years old at the time of liberation and he tells me that in contrast to head the he remembers nothing
There's nothing that triggers it looked like a field or the the the people that this is it more than ... for ... the streets extra for real because there's a street fair you have to imagine
All of the faithful service members refrigerator ...
Why do you think in offices around the children three protect my understanding is there was no
Real message of killing people to serve killing children as a little bit more difficult because of the shows that a lot of [noise] because even the officers could relate to their own children and the other two are safe worthless Sylvana [noise]
In the chaos of the final months of the war was the tide turns against Hitler more and more prisoners arrived at bell some form of a Nazi concentration camps food and water we're increasingly in short supply
The disease was spreading but Lew but on the other women prisoners somehow managed to keep some sort of know morality and even routine in the lives of the faulty also youngsters in that kept the strangest that might sound
We moved here that the in the morning and then the ... most of the time that that the way these and I did watch one face Shay and the vice Saudi faces at the same face Russia
You mean like a child of a little fun oh did you did you have food every day or three times a day
Now and now let's have times a day late for that slice or have a slice of bread and nice to have our snow TV had water that had to do
All too long day you were one of the older ones one time and
Shot down I ... to me and they came for everything to me if defeat it then I added cases bad day or do something buys it
And a infant Dave and not fights and then never any fights to jail and they knew that they had to behave in itself you know that just life be only after ... and the children that
Core I asked how did you interact with the the small children they they must have most of your questions they must have said now why what's happening all
... dads fair mad that money that I used to tell him you you go and be nice and do what's his face and then you see a mommy again
But when you said that did did you believe that
I had to believe that that will see my mind again and that's what I Do hope for all this chilling they left for dead
Can you remember feelings scared all the time or was it the main thing was was your hunger you always can either always
Thinking that day and she has some may
Despite the fair when the ball to the world to moments when his he and the other older children could sit together and daydream
Believer said sciences and watching it like to eat to now does tend to stay in now that mindset side effects and you know we see now the food and I always said I wanted to make fresh came
Was what else did you talk about what the other ...
And one day find since he said if they can both me and they kept saying that because I said this and he had to learn from the people who came to my she ... she says I'm not gonna last do that and looked on there and the way my brother's Jackie said that ... with you
But I don't think that could define any that
Hunger was one thing but also your personal hygiene and
The little ... asked me once if I still had my ... but that didn't know what she meant and all of a sudden and they may I said no he said I can make it took to the dump thing ... some they died
And I said no no no no I was too scared I was still happy not to have that ...
The children weren't allowed to wanting to fall from the barracks for their own safety but don't occasions Lugar would take ... with her and she went looking for food they won't pause mounting piles of corpses strewn across the fields
To even searched for her own relatives amongst the sides and
Knew a mean body back in the ruling party and as soon as foreign auntie but then I was never a scientist or
[noise]
Seventy five Seventy five years you em each other [noise]
What was what was going to be like a little boy from beautiful yeah yeah you're going to be a much different
Robots or will be in the land is one of his oldest surviving friends from the children's house
They have the same round face [noise]
Now head ... eyes
Groping also from a Jewish family
Was taken by the Nazis with his parents to bell son then separated from them he was only four years old off to his parents were taken away he looked up to him to together we watch some of the black and white silent footage that the British film the bell sent off deliberation
Says a group of children coming up to a barbed wire the rule smiling off
That Dan ... than
Your parents do you recognize anybody who's not thanks and you think that little boy standing in front of the one with the with the cap on
How would you be them roping for full little smiling face and I would really smiley face when you see yourself there is a very strange ... says quietly [noise]

... like many Holocaust survivors I met him he seems able to confront the terrorist she went through and take something positive from them but Ropeik still struggles with the memory of the horrors of his childhood so it's now more than Seventy years ago
[noise] family remembered the smell of the dead
Bodies just the smell yes terrible [noise] also the children everybody smells terrible because there are no showers nothing less reigning I put my clothes out and I say in the rain
Three my buddy that because
In months that are not washing myself now I'm
Seventy seven
And normally act or three times a day to Bob and I wash my hands for your time today
So it was a three year old is a four year old you you remember outside the children's house there were did motives to recoup
Cs because of our enough people to to put it in the great to bury them hey I must think the people that were adults that don't understand this or that Iverson rush anything
That I was small and that they listed that buddy
You try to play with them yeah yeah and you were in the children's how thick because your parents are being sent away
Yes ... upstairs I'd actually downstairs
In the sort of bunk wasn't yeah can you remember what you what are your thoughts at that time I mean you'd known practically nothing else
The only thing is I remember that I
Father
You remember them go your way yeah and
Said arms
[noise] Fisher you again and have
[noise] to me
I Know you're ... you find it hard to talk about those days how's it going home to with the years yeah
Because I'm not one day as I Am happy because it just destroyed
A couple of ... when you see see see now what do you feel what do you think when you see how you know
Embarrassing complex
Prevails and completely
Yes no less she's above belt [noise] she's not see it is all the bells
But none of the survivors seemed to me to be free had tea leaves each day talking and thinking about ... who spends much of her energy is campaigning to keep its memory alive
Robie wants to forget what he went through and count
And Julius now in his seventies with these great bed and friendly face one just around the bells memorial without being able to remember anything but desperately wants to make some sense of his paws off to the war he was adopted by a couple in Finland
