Thanks to listeners support in the past so we're asking you now to keep that going keep up the momentum we're down to what is it Paul hundred sixty four thousand dollars now to raise a hundred and sixty four thousand dollars that we need to raise by seven o'clock tonight only five hours to go now
So ... why not make that pledge right now give
Us a call at one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven you can give on line at W. B. U. R. dot org don't forget when you've fledge whatever you pledge today you'll be entered into when this brand new Subaru a brand new Subaru from city side sue ruined Belmont what you need to do that before seven o'clock to do it now at the
Funding for here and now comes from the listeners of WB or Boston and math works creators of Matt lab and simulate software for technical confusing and model based designed for six celebrating the pace of discovery in engineering and science learn math works dot com [noise]
From Boston University you're listening to the point nine W. B. U. R. S. than Boston home a Boston's largest radio newsroom
Ninety two point seven WB you wait his very eighty nine point one WVU wage Brewster and streaming at W. B. U. R. dot org W. B. U. R. Boston NPR News station
Live from NPR News in Washington ... nothing new here says the chairman of the Senate Judiciary committee after seeing a new FBI report on Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh the report was requested to investigate sexual assault allegation against Kavanaugh NPR's Brian Naylor has more
Republican Senator Chuck Grassley says in his words there is nothing in it that we didn't already know and the needs of the Judiciary Committee nor the FBI could locate any third parties who can attest to any of the allegations
Have it all has been accused of sexual misconduct by several women including Christine Blasey Ford testify under oath last week the Kavanaugh assaulted her well both were in high school
The FBI was ordered to investigate that accusation and others the bureau interviewed nine individuals the White House source tells NPR the Senate could begin voting on the Kavanaugh nomination as soon as friday Brian Naylor NPR News Washington
The confidential life beyond the cheerios are available to senators in a secure room at the Capitol Senate Democrats continue to insist that the FBI review of new charges which too narrow here's top Judiciary Committee Democrat Dianne Feinstein
Democrats agreed that the investigation so should be limited [noise]
We do not agree that the White House should tie the FBI's hands it's simply not credible to say that public testimony in last week's hearing as a substitute for interviews by FBI agents
Not only to senators lack the expertise of FBI agents we were only given five minutes
To question judge Kavanaugh
Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer is of the opinion that something is in the new materials
I disagree having received this a briefing on all of the documents I disagree with Senator Grassley statements that there was no hint of misconduct nine
People question getting a supplementary inquiry a World Trade organization summit in a couple of weeks will take place in North America but the U.S is not invited Dan ... explains
Has been left off the guest list for the two day summit because the WTO is one of the organizations derided by president Donald Trump Canada's international trade diversification minister Jim cars says ministers from Thirteen like minded countries will attend and he says the hope is to ultimately persuade Washington of the continued value of the WTO
Frederick in its disdain for the Trade Organization and even blocked appointments of a new judges to its dispute settlement body cars says modernizing the world body is the best way to reestablish of rules based system something that would be more difficult if I Do I have not preserve the dispute resolution mechanism
In the new free trade agreement for NPR News I'm Dan carbon Chuck in Toronto Gallo down three Twenty one this is NPR
News this is not he points on WB you are I'm Jack ... in Boston the Kennedys control commissions approving final business licenses for the first to retail marijuana shops in state
Stores will be in life Lester and Northampton national grid meets with unions today representing the more than twelve hundred workers locked out of their jobs a representative from national grid says if the twelfth time the two sides are meeting since the workers contract expired more than three months ago
An estimated ten thousand immigrants living in Massachusetts where the temporary immigration status are benefiting from a decision by a federal judge in California today a judge issued a preliminary injunction that prevents the Trump Administration from ending temporary protected status for immigrants from El Salvador Haiti Nicaragua and Sudan
In the forecast a mix of sending clouds today ... and the upper sixties low seventies once for a chance of showers to not lose in the mid fifties tomorrow partly sunny chance the shower with eyes in the mid sixties right now Seventy degrees and Boston this is W.
B. U. R. were funded by you our listeners and by ... which can gallery featuring Julian ... newest paintings Princeton animated works tend Newbury Street Boston or a crack a wiccan gallery dot com
And applied bio mass applying mechanistic mathematical modeling simulation an analysis to accelerate indie risk drug R and D more at applied ... dot com
Again this is W. B. U. R. jak NPR's here in the studio with Deborah Becker to tell you about our fall fundraiser a hundred sixty one thousand dollars now that we're trying to raise
Before the end of this fundraiser that's how much we need to raise from you our listeners before this fundraiser ends at seven o'clock tonight in order to meet our larger goal in this fall fund raiser the biggest fundraiser of year every year here at W. B. U. R.
So we're asking you to do your part help us pick up the pace a little bit so that we can end this fundraiser strong by calling one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or like going online to W. B. U.
R. dot org and all we're asking is to do what you can whatever the ... free right now is it five dollars right now is it five hundred dollars is it five thousand dollars whatever you can you help us get over the finish line of this big fall fundraiser and it is the biggest fundraiser the air for us
Help us get over the finish line successfully at seven o'clock tonight and and successful for us means successful for you it means that we will have the resources we need to keep covering the news the way you expect us to cover that is that's all we're asking
To do here is let us raised the money that we need to give you the news product that you want if you appreciate the independence and you appreciate the quality
And then do it right now and you know we have so many folks who are contributing and doing their part to and thank you if you've already made your pledge but the folks that said he said Subaru and do not
Have given us a new car to give away during this fundraiser someone's going to win that twenty Nineteen Subaru we also have a terrific thank you gift that is also a donation if you can make ten
Dollars a month a pledge of ten dollars a month for the news and W. B. U. R. will send us our thanks to cook book titled favorite recipes from Melissa clerics kitchen now that's that's selling their times food columnist mullahs the clock
It's hundreds of recipes it's a terrific cookbook and it could be yours for your pledge for the news of ten dollars a month to get the cookbook and get satisfaction knowing that you've done your part to pay for the news that you listen
One eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven is the number to call you can go online to W. E. D. U. R. dot or don't forget you're still entered in no matter what you pledge to win this brand new Subaru at twenty Nineteen Subaru from city science Subaru in Belmont it's your choice
Of either the cross trick or the outback both of these cars get more than thirty miles per gallon on the highway both of them have a five star safety rating from the national Highway Traffic Safety Administration these are great cars
And they these are cars that you could wind just by doing your part here to support the news one hundred fifty nine thousand dollars now that we're trying to raise
In the next five hours or so less than five hours now we're trying to make that a one thousand dollar a minute donation that's what we need and not trying to do that that's what we need in order to end this fundraiser strong we need to raise a thousand dollars every single minute
In order to end this fundraiser successfully that's going to take every one right now doing their part to support the news here at W. B. you are if you've been waiting on it if you've been thinking throughout this fundraiser well I'll take care of it at the end they'll take care of it later I'll take care of it when I have time your times
To support the news here at W. B. U. R. you need to call now
And perhaps more importantly for yourself if you want to get entered into wind is Subaru you need to pledge now you have to pledge before this fundraiser and which is now less than five hours away so make that call right now one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or online or W. B. U. R. dot or
You know we work under deadlines all the time we do we understand a but it really is just a few hours left in this very important fundraiser that's it
So we understand they've probably been listening and maybe got busy and you didn't have time to make a pledge right away so so this is it this is the end and we're hoping to get their successfully to get there by reaching this fundraising goal what are we now Jack
London one fifty nine one hundred and fifty nine thousand dollars left to go we can do this with your help we've done it before we know you can do it so we're encouraging you
... [noise] [noise]
Wow um
Yeah I mean there there's definitely been times in my life where I felt that um the first thing that comes to mind was
Um wow we're going in huh [laughter] [laughter]
They have you with something else mysterious [laughter] um well let's see the first thing that comes to mind was ah in school I remember a
Early high school I went to a number of different schools growing up and
Uh the second one that I went to a during the first week of school I remember the we were in the class and and you know I sort of done our activities were waiting for the bells are ringing I was the new kid at school and so sitting by myself with my glasses on the you know the oversized cope that my mom bought it made me aware
That I didn't like but I Would anyway and I'm and I'm sitting among remember this kid was one of those sort of cool kids saying looking over at me and say who him
And uh I got really ... in the kick outta walked over and stared down at me as I sit down any ridge back and punish me for no reason
And instantly dislike circle formed around us and um and it became this moment you know not unlike as I'm thinking about it not in like the moment in a moment where like this group of kids are around us around the you know it goes on and
I remember like it was yesterday this dislike feeling like well this is a moment where either I have to like defend myself and like hit him back even though that doesn't feel entirely right or the
Rest of my high school life will probably I Will be probably considered a coward and probably have to deal with this you know for the next four years [noise] um and yeah from somewhere I goes deep within me some of the courage and and took a swing that connected in
Any way we want to have in this fight and and I felt horribly about it of course it's not really in my nature to be like that but um it did feel like that moment of one of many moments along the way of sort of you know proven your approving my manhood even though it didn't feel entirely right who won the fight
Oh say that I Want to hear [laughter]
Yeah he ... he was older than it was it so you know after we exchange a couple of swings a people sort of part of this and uh I I think I came up to the next day of school that came in and
I remember walking into into the gym and a dog they all were there and the kid John ... was there to it
All the other kids kept saying oh John go straight there they'll drain he'd beat you up yesterday you're going to take that meant you can take that and all the time I think it please stop your please stop just but you know I got to keep the exterior like yeah man I did it you
Want it you want some more [laughter] but inside I was praying that he wouldn't get out but from then on I was I was pretty much left alone for the rest of high school
And I think I have to ask you for moonlight your character I mean he's a he's a cook he has a reason to have to stand in his mouth that you use that to speak very expressive ally to shell surprised to show concern [laughter] is this you think written into the scripted you decide like you needed it
No it wasn't written into this group but I did feel like I needed it I needed something because you know the thing is quite a long seen as a lot of changes in the scene a lot of like subtle
I'm emotional changes in the scene that I wanted to play without overplayed you know and and I felt like if I had something that I could work with that would help me I'm
Remarks some of those changes behaviorally that didn't require and that wouldn't phones are overreacting or over selling anything
Um so yeah the two favorite toothpick became my best friend [laughter] you go through a lot of the things [laughter] oh a lot definitely
My guess is Andre Holland the cluster of moonlight forty to Selma and the net and the star of this
That's all right we'll hear more from him after a break but first and asking you to contribute to the station whatever you can afford whether it's a little are a lot we have to support the things we care about thank you I'm Terry Gross and this is fresh air
Were funded by you our listeners invite a DSL guest conductor ... opens the season with works by Tchaikovsky driven skiing bar talk October eleventh to thirteenth tickets BSO dot org
And edible Boston are seasonal magazine connecting you to local food and food producers and the greater Boston area locations where to find a copy at edible Boston dot com
This used WB you are on line or W. B. U. R. dot org jak levy ours here in the studio with Deborah Becker to tell you about our fall fundraiser and we do need to pick up the pace here just a little bit it's a hundred and fifty seven thousand dollars that we need to raise
My ... seven o'clock tonight so that's a little less than five hours only about four and a half hours at this point
And it's a lot of money that we need to raise ... not a lot of time we need to raise money at about a rate of a thousand dollars a minute if we want to finish this fall fundraiser and call it a success if you want to meet our goal here in this fall fundraiser
So here's how you can do your part you can call one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or you can go right on line to W. B. U. R. dot org
But just a few hours left so don't put it off into the last minute we're so close we are almost there
But you know it's it's kind of a nail biter right I mean it it's kind of an amateur whether we're going to make that successfully are now we've got
We've got four and a half hours left a and we need your help in these next four hour or so so don't let the afternoon and get away from me why don't you take about a minute or so right now make that pledge for the news make that pledge for quality independent journalism you want to protect this kind of journalism journalism where we really
Spend a lot of time listening to all sides in presenting the facts so you can understand what's going on in your world if you appreciate that
They do whatever you can right now it it can be a dollar it can be a thousand dollars whatever you can that's how we're funded that's how it works I Know it seems unlikely but it has worked up until this point
And we've been very fortunate as a journalistic institution to be able to grow what we're asking you to do is please do your part now because this is how we can ... that we can continue to grow
And be strong for you with your pledged ... Catholic
This one one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven is the number to call you can go on line to W. B. U. R. dot org like you said we've been able to grow with and it it's surprising considering that a good chunk of our funding comes from our community four and a half percent comes from the government the rest of that Ninety five point five percent
Comes from the community and we cannot continue this model without your support as Deb said only takes about a minute or so so why not do it right now down to a hundred and fifty six thousand dollars right to raise
By seven o'clock we're making progress we're slowly chipping away at that number but we need to chip away just a little bit faster if we want to make sure that we can reach this gold that we have set
By seven o'clock tonight remember seven o'clock tonight that's the end of this fundraiser that's over the U.S has also the end of your chance to win our sweepstakes for today which is a brand new Subaru
From city side Subaru in Belmont your choice the cross trick or the outback
Don't wait on this we know how to de can get away from usa take that time right now only a minute or two and call us at one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or online at W. B. U. R. dot org
Okay I'm going to say and ... that's how they you know who it is Melissa Clarke
I Know that name okay
New York times food columnist so if you're a foodie and you like and the New York Times columnist Melissa Clark if you can make and say what is she talking about she's gone over the edge no if you can make a ten dollar amounts contribution for the news right now will send you a little thank you get that the cookbooks favorite recipes from Melissa Clark's kitchen
And and chat with this book you also get a little chart that helps you cross referenced the recipes they can build a menu for special occasions it's Melissa Clark's cookbook yours for ten dollars a month for the news make that pledge now
One eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven is the number to call we're down to a hundred and fifty six thousand dollars that we're trying to raise your by the end of this fundraiser one hundred fifty six
Thousand dollars we're so close we need to get that down to zero by seven o'clock tonight and that time is coming closely four and a half hours away we can get there but we can only get there with your support so don't wait on this
Take the time now put your money where your mouth is a you know you stand with WB you are you stand with the fact you support public radio now's the time to make the pledge and do it remember you'll still be entered into when a brand new Subaru from city side super in Belmont when you pledge
That pledge now call one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or go on line to W. B. U. R. dot org
And soon assume
Only as
In the film one night I thought his performance was so good so subtle I wanted to know who is this actor and now that I've gotten to learn more about him and even more in on him
Movies music books they're an important part of my life hearing from the people who create them only deepens my appreciation and comprehension of they were
Bringing you those people their stories that's part of what we do on public radio I support in public radio you're supporting in depth coverage of our popular culture as well as in depth coverage of the news in my opinion that's really worth the investment pleased become a member of the station thank you I'm Terry Gross
And this is W. B. you are an jak levy ours here in the studio with Deborah Becker to tell you about our fall fundraiser one hundred fifty four thousand dollars
That we need to raise my seven o'clock in order to end this fall fundraiser meet our goal and call it a success call our largest fundraiser of the year
Of success we're asking you to do your part support the news here at W. R. because this is
How we pay for the news we rely on listeners support just like yours so now is the time to make your call make your pledge support public radio support the news here that you rely on why not do it right now
It's in one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven you can pledge on line and W. B. U. R. dot org and help us just chip away at that one hundred fifty four thousand
Dollar number on fifty for help us do it with your pledging pledging for really is
A comprehensive source of news and information enjoying this interview this Andre Holland interview that we're listening to right now will think about that it's in depth interviews that we bring in here and WB wire it's colon programs where you can express your opinions were continuing to follow this
Ongoing battle about Brett Kavanaugh's ah looks like unfortunately eminent a confirmation to the U.S Supreme Court we've got that going on and we've got local news happening for you it's got that as Stacy hearing this morning it's all here it's all here for you on WB you are and it's here because of the pledges
That you make to this radio station during fundraisers just like this one so do your part during this fundraiser in the most important fundraiser of the year make your pledge now so we will have the resources that we need to keep the news coming
One eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven is the number to call you can of course go online to W. B. U. R. dot org like Deb just said well we're watching right now Senator Chuck Grassley the chairman of the Senate Judiciary committee says he expects Brett Kavanaugh to be confirmed
To the U.S Supreme Court on Saturday or by Saturday we'll have coverage of that as it happens because this fundraiser ends at seven o'clock and I even when we are fundraising all the time we still will put the fundraiser on holes that we can continue to bring you the most important news of the day we did it last week
With the hearings with a Brett Kavanaugh and with a doctor Christine Blasey Ford we stopped the fundraiser for a day that we could bring you that hearing in its entirety along with special coverage and analysis
That's what we believe in we believe in that an informed populace is a better populace and we hope that you appreciate that mission that's why we got into this business we want to bring you the best most important news that we can in the best way possible and we pride ourselves on doing it
In a way that is independent in the ... the big key to that is that we are independent because we have public listener support so now's the time to make that call helpless chip away at this one hundred and fifty four thousand dollar number it only takes a minute or two to do it
Make the call now one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or on line that WVU
R. dot org we're working hard to bring you the latest information to bring a thoughtful coverage of what's happening in Washington and what's happening in Boston and what's happening around the world
All the time twenty four seven it's here for you and ... programs whether it's fresh air whether it's radio Boston getting underway at three o'clock all things considered this afternoon
The b._b._c. we're here for you and we're asking you what is what is it ... is it five dollars a month as it five five dollar pledge right now is it five hundred dollars or whatever it is please do it during the fundraiser because this is at the final hours just about four hours left
To raise the money we need to continue to be strong and to provide you with quality news and information please do your part today
No one's going to call up right now with one hundred fifty four thousand dollar pledged that don't hear it in might be there you know there are there stranger things have happened and we have gotten pledges for as much as five thousand dollars ten thousand dollars one time a twenty five thousand dollar pledge
We can't bank on those we can expect that to happen every single time normally the vast majority of his money comes from people just like you call and they say five dollars a month ten dollars a month
Fifteen dollars a month or whatever I can give whatever works within my budget that's what they give and it's tens of thousands of donations just like those that help us get to where we want to be you may not be able to give too much right now but tens of thousands of people donating just like you
Andrew a call now get yourself entered into when a brand new Subaru from city side Subaru in Belmont the number to call one last time one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven for online the W. B. U. R. dot org were
Funded by you our listeners and by artist humanity
Greatest Barney on earth October thirteenth celebrating creative than to the expanded epicenters grand opening lord greatest party on earth dot com
And Diana crawl the sheer volume theater this Friday Night Live jazz vocals and piano with Diana crawls turn up the quiet world tour ... theater dot com [noise]
This is fresh air I'm Terry Gross that is more of one of our favorite recent interviews our interview with Andre Holland he started moonlight Nick
Selma in forty two and stars in the Stephen King inspired series castle rock
I spoke with him in August twenty Eighteen when he was in London at Shakespeare's Globe theater playing the title role of a fellow
When we left off he just shared to form and events from growing up in Alabama won when his cousin burglar rise to store and was shot in the back by the owner and died the store owner who was white was Andre Holland baseball coach at the time
The other story it was one Harlan gave his fourth grade crash a Valentine and she wrote back and nasty now using a racial slur the school that you want to we got that Valentine that horrible Valentine was that
An integrated school it was a Christian school so it was meant to be integrated but it actually there were two a black students at the school myself and and then oh
Wow okay yeah uh-huh why did your parents choose to send you to that school
Well I think it was the public the public schools that I was known for um they weren't they weren't good they were they were quite dangerous and I went to that public school for a year and in that year I think I may be brought a book home once
The whole you know the whole school year out to the point where my mother used to tell me if you get off the school bus tomorrow without a book you going to be in big trouble you know but I you know I still managed to make all days and it just wasn't a challenging environment you know and
A lot of my friends were doing things that you know gangs will be back then so people were joining gangs and fighting and doing stuff and my parents could see it see it coming so they wanted me to go to a school that was different from that and so
Um that's why they sent me terribly
Surprised that saying that your baseball card shot your cousin in the back [noise] um what was your relationship with the baseball college after that I Can't imagine being coached by him after he shot your your cousin
Yeah I wasn't I didn't play any more on that team uh we we ended up I ended up playing it someplace else but I still on around you know we I played baseball all the time going up and so I you know we we were still we would come into contact with one another from time to time it was the coach ever punished
I don't believe so um I mean this was many years ago and and you know I was Seventeen at the time but I don't believe he ever was punished
Huh [noise] that must have been really frightening for you know
Yeah you know it was but what does the engineering Terry I'm learning about myself is it you know it it was frightening but I think that I got very good at
Putting those feelings away mhm um whenever these things would happen you know a
... basically the same thing I deal with that with that stupid Valentine's card I just took that away in a drawer somewhere you know what I mean you've held on to it but is it like that yeah yeah but I yeah I mean I ... and and uh so that nobody else could see you know and
And it felt that my my sort of survival and progression so dependent on nobody else being able to see it and under the same thing with the with those feelings ivy and it's only now in recent years I think that I'm I'm really starting to look at how those things
Um have continued to affect me in my in my adult life
Has a stage been
Stage and in front of the camera been safe places for you to express feelings that you never felt comfortable expressing in real life anti drawn experiences that you've kept tucked away
Absolutely absolutely and this this play 'em do right now
I'm not an opportunity to express a lot a lot of that which is really uncomfortable for me but when I'm doing my best to go to those places and like expressing fellows right yeah yeah exactly it is raising as a and his grief and I think also I think also his um
B. you are that's what we're here for that's why we have these fundraisers to that we can bring you the news at its best and the ah the best news that you can get one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven is the number to call
On line to WVU our job for four hundred dollars we need to raise right now in order to meet this hour's goal so why not call now
And ... [noise]
Funding for a year and now comes from the listeners WVU are Boston and exact science is offering coma guard for average risk adults over fifty a non invasive colon cancer screening tests that can be used at home by prescription only information at home a guard test dot com [noise]
From Boston University you're listening to the ... W. B. U. R. FM Boston home of Boston's largest radio newsroom to point seven WB you wait his very eighty nine point one WVU wage Brewster and streaming at W. B. U. R. dot org
W. B. U. R. Boston NPR News station
Live from NPR News in Washington I'm which are Johnston the White House continues to defend Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh who's facing multiple allegations of sexual misconduct press secretary Sarah Sanders is accusing Democrats of derailing the confirmation process from the start
When the President Trump nominated judge Brett Kavanaugh Senator Schumer declared the Democrats would oppose this nomination with everything they had
Before a single document was produce single meeting with the senator or hearing was ever scheduled Chuck Schumer and the Senate Democrats telegraphed a strategy to throw the kitchen sink at the judge with no regard for the process of decency or standard stay
FBI is and the next step conducting a supplemental background and destination into the claims made against cap and all the agency is expected to release its findings by the end of the week Senate Republicans are pushing for a full vote on his confirmation by then
President Trump is taking to social media to push back against a scathing report published in the New York times NPR's Scott Horsley says the article reports that Trump and his family used to be a scheme to evade taxes on hundreds of millions of dollars in inherited wealth
The New York times fourteen thousand words story was the product of more than a year of investigation it shows that despite his claim to be a self made billionaire President Trump was the beneficiary of a vast inherited fortune much of which was shielded from taxes through a variety of questionable schemes
New York taxing authorities say they're reviewing the articles findings
Industry the president does not dispute any of the facts and the article describes it as quote a very old boring and often told ... piece drunk complains the vast majority of the newspapers coverage of his administration has been negative echoing the charge leveled by the White House press secretary Scott Horsley NPR News Washington
The death toll from last week's magnitude seven point five earthquake and tsunami in Indonesia now surpasses fourteen hundred NPR's Julie McCarthy is in the city of ... near the epicenter
As you enter the city of ... there is a all kinds of signs of distress in frustration but not violence or unrest do you feel
You feel that there is a um a a sense of desperation people are holding signs up saying we need help to we need food and you have little children chasing the cars and people are throwing out their food at them
NPR's Julie McCarthy reporting
Nisha the federal emergency management agency is set to conduct the first test of the new national wireless emergency alert system later this hour most cell phones across the U.S little ring or vibrate at ... pm eastern time
The alert will ensure the system would work in the event of a national crisis this is NPR News
Were funded by you our listeners invited BSO guest conductor ... opens the season with works by Tchaikovsky driven skiing bar talk October eleventh to thirteenth tickets at BSO dot org
And de tricks switch up kitchen and dinner where exchange through October tenth in Belmont center and Newton lower falls D. I. D. R. I. K. S. dot com slash switch op
Nist is W. B. U. R. jak ... here in the studio with ... to tell you we are very pleased to report that we met our goal in the last hour or we were able to raise the ten thousand dollars we were going for thank you to all of you who pledged but of course
As is the nature of fundraising we have another goal now it's another ten thousand dollars now to raise by three o'clock we can get there with your support so give us a call at one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or go on line to W. B. U. R. dot org
And that's the kind of news we love to report right yeah say we've met that goal but it's only because of the generosity of folks like you and it's of course also the case that we don't always get to report
Happy new is what we report is the news that you need to know whether it's good or bad or somewhere in between and we're asking you to step up in this hour now to protect independent journalism we can really sum up our mission and just a few words and that is to create a more informed public to help you make the decisions that you need to be a responsible citizen a responsible voter
Support that mission now the w._b. or dot org or by picking up the phone one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven
Member whatever you pledge you'll be entered into when a brand new twenty Nineteen cross trick or the twenty Nineteen out back from city side Subaru in Belmont your chance to win a great great new car and also your chance to support the news right now here at W. R. fall
Fundraiser ends tomorrow so helpless closed out strong with his hourly goal of ten thousand dollars by three o'clock
Give us a call right now what eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or online at W. R. dot org [noise]

WVU our supporters include in good company bind us mutual thinking financial education more accessible with buses catered to your goals and values in good company Boston dot com and log me in lake or go to me to
Approach sponsor of how I built this summit taking place in San Francisco at the ... center October sixteenth [noise] learn more I go to a meeting dot com [noise]

This is fresh air and Terry Gross the federal government under President Trump is the subject of the new book the fist risk by my guest journalist Michael Lewis who's also the author of the best sellers money ball and the big short which were adopted into films and the undoing project
Lewis looks at Trump's government by focusing on three departments energy commerce and agriculture
If you're thinking that this is about boring bureaucracy consider that as Lewis points out the government manages a portfolio of risks that no private person or a corporation was ever able to manage ranging from forecasting and warning about hurricanes the national weather service is part of the Commerce Department
To preventing the accidental explosions have our own nuclear weapons one of the energy department's many responsibilities
Many essential positions and the Trump Administration remain unfilled and some of the key positions Lewis says uh filled by people who are uninformed about what areas they're supposed to be overseeing well others have conflicts of interest our political views that make them antagonistic toward the department or agency they're leading
Lewis started writing about this in articles published in Vanity Fair Michael Lewis welcome back to ... explain what the fifth risk is
Short answer is is the risk that you failed to imagine it's is while you're worried about what you're worried about is the thing is actually going to come and kill you and the longer answer is when I'm working on this book about the federal government under Trump
I come to see the federal government as really a portfolio of risks that are being managed
And as a wandering around the federal government trying to figure out what these risks are over and over again I when I'm asking people in the Energy Department or the agriculture part or even the White House to name kind of the top risks on the tip of their minds
Are they all come up with kind of three or four and then they can't think of this
So I thought that's the moment where the mind failed to imagine what it needs to imagine
[noise] since your book is about the federal government under Trump focusing on the energy agriculture and commerce departments why did you name it to ... now that you've explained with a fifth risk means
What was the response
Going about taking over the federal government we're kind of like the fire under me is when I discovered that the Obama administration and spent the better part of a year and thousands of people's lives preparing essentially the best course of that ever been created an in how to run the federal government or what was going on inside the federal government
And that this course was meant to be delivered to whoever won the election the day after the election starting the day after the election and they were expecting hundreds of people to roll in to do receive these briefings or and nobody showed up nobody debris in many cases when I go get get get these briefings I'm the first person to have got them
And I thought well this enterprises managing all these risks ... eat imagines but we as a society to spend much time thinking about
Um if it's being neglected ignored and and uh is operating on the basis of ignorance so I thought what happens when you do that across a big portfolio risk like the federal government runs and ... ... what you what happens is you
[noise] [noise]
[noise]

[noise]


[noise]
[noise]
[noise]
[noise]


[noise] [noise]
This is a test for the national emergency alert system
The system was developed by broadcast and cable operators voluntary cooperation with the federal emergency management agency the Federal Communications commission and local employees to keep you informed and be a bit of an emergency it's the sort of been an actual emergency an official message would have followed the tone alert you heard of ... of this message
Is similar wireless emergency alert tests message has been sent out to all cell phones in the nation some cell phones will receive the message others will not no action is required

We're funded by you our listeners and by DC you digital federal credit union where you can get the same low car loan rate on a used or new car what's in DC you save you D.C Utah to work
I'm WVU are hard to put our Andrea Shea freedom of the practice protected in the
First Amendment but the constitution says nothing about paying for it the federal government provides only four and a half percent of WB Lars Sunday the rest of it comes from a community how it falls on each of us to support W. B. U. R. and NPR
Protect independent journalism become a sustaining number right now here's how
You can call one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to a seven or you can go on line to W. B. U. R. dot org jak ... here in the studio with ... to tell you about our fall fundraiser where we're trying to raise eight thousand dollars
In the next thirty eight minutes thirty seven minutes really at this point and here's the thing we have a flash match on the table a flash match that means that would ever you pledge right now a group of listeners are going to match fifty percent of what you do today to support the news here at W. B. you are this is a great opportunity for us
To wipe out a good chunk of the money that we need to raise here as part of our fault fundraiser eight thousand dollars we need to raise
By the end of the hour
Whatever you pledge right now will will go fifty percent further but that's only in effect for the next twenty minutes or so so you need to make that pledge right now if you want your money to go as far as it could possibly go one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or on line the W. B. U. R. dot org
Took advantage of this one is his second opportunity if you've been listening this afternoon maybe got pulled into a lunch meeting and couldn't take advantage of fifty percent matching the last half hour here's another one on the table and really what it does is it allows you to maximize the impact of your gift maybe you have ten dollars a month
Within the budget will in effect that will become a Fifteen dollar among sustaining pledge because of the generosity of older listeners like you are stepping up to match half of whatever you're able to give in the next twenty or so minutes and you can do that a W. B. Y. dot org or by picking up the phone number is one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven
There's so many reasons to get nowadays so many reasons you know whether it's it's it's for the news you hear whether you're a you're an online
You are dot org whether you're a pod cast fan of all the pod cast that we do be an endless thread the new podcast last seen this is all your listeners dollars at work and that's one of the things that we really liked about this is that
You know we don't have shareholders or or stock holders then you know send dividends to you know that's not where your money's going to go it's going to go right back into the product that you hear on air that you see on the website that you hear on your podcast dream whatever it may be and it's a really really great way
To I think I think support a news model it's a great business model but
It means we also have to ask you the listener for money every now and that and right now
This is when your money goes as far as it possibly can and extra fifty percent on top of whatever you give will be donated only for the next Fifteen minutes or so so don't wait on this one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or online at W. B. U. R. dot org
This is Ira Glass if this American Life never dies decade in this country we see in a real divide between what goes on at regular radio stations and here on public radio regular radio gets more from Raj nice to every year the same format everywhere not a lot of personality that double digits here and there but buying like it's pretty repetitive
Meanwhile public radio just getting bigger and bigger
Is sort of corny but I think that's because what happens here every day among other things just has more heart
Even on our worst day on our worst show you can tell that we're here for idealistic reasons we went news this morning that weren't real analysis of what's going on around us we want to know about new music it's not being played us where new writers we might like
And they're still the idea here every day that part of our job is to invent something new right here on the radio
It's a public space a public square and it's funded by public support that people like you and me who believe in this kind of thing we pitching together we can help out
Here's how you can do what you call one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or give right on line the W. B. U. R. dot org
And think about what Ira Glass was just saying that ability to make independent choices and put a diverse range of subjects and voices on the air every day you know one of the blessings that we have
In public radio that we don't have to say well is this segment going to get big enough ratings can we sell ads yeah against this subject we're not bound by those kinds of concerns and it's because of the generosity of folks like you who keep us independent
And then the next Fifteen or so minutes you can make your dollar go even farther with a fifty percent match from other listeners like you and the number to call to trigger that matches one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or of
Course right on line at W. B. U. R. dot org member eight thousand dollars that we need to raise by the end of this hour eight thousand dollars by three o'clock it ordered to stay on track to stay on targets words are larger goal of ending this fall fundraisers successfully tomorrow we still have
About three hundred eighty thousand dollars that we need to raise in the next twenty seven hours or so twenty six and a half
And that's a lot of money that's it's a it's an achievable um out but it's only achievable if you do your part to support the news here at W. B. U. R.
We're down to seven thousand now I'm being told seven thousand dollars we need to raise in the next half an hour and remember when you pledge and the next twelve to Thirteen minutes or so your money is going to go that bit farther fifty percent farther to the exact because of this group of listeners who put their money up and said yes I Want to support WB you are and I want to encourage others
To do the same this is your really your best chance if you've been waiting to make a pledge you've been waiting to making especially large pledge five hundred dollars a thousand or two thousand dollar pledged is when you're going to get the most bang for your buck
Literally one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or online at W. B.
U. R. dot org your dollar goes further in the next twelve minutes and some of that money in effect comes back to you with a generally I think you gift if you give a just a five dollar a month level just five dollars a month
A twenty five dollar gift card to Henry bears park is coming back to you as our thank you gift Henry bears park has seven locations and greater Boston
And one in Providence and it is just a charming toy store a full of carefully curated items classics like monopoly legos an arts and science kicks and of course books books for your children to really expand their world and learn about the world around them which is what you do every day by tuning into WB war the number is one eight hundred
Nine zero nine nine to eight seven and of course you can give on line at W. B. U. R. dot org
Seven thousand dollars we are trying to raise by three o'clock seven thousand dollars that we need in order to stay on target towards our goal you know kind of you mentioned you'll get something back in the form of a thank you gift I Hope you know ... people also realize they're going to get back WB you are a stronger more versatile more vibrant WVU are we also of course have this sweepstakes it's on the table today
That there's a brand new twenty Nineteen Subaru from ... in Belmont it's your choice of the model the twenty Nineteen cross track or the twenty Nineteen outback someone is going to win this car some lucky winner some lucky donor to WB you are someone who says yes W. B. U. R.
Yeah part of their going to win this car we've had several sweepstakes so far this year a and this is just the latest sweepstakes remember if you become a sustaining member of WB you are you become a monthly donors five
Ten Fifteen dollars a month or you'll be entered into when all of our sweepstakes but you want to give now because right now is when your money's going to go that far this Next Fifty percent
It was so low acoustic performance tomorrow tickets at the Cabot dot org and posters Smith Britain posters on wrinkle resistant full double celebrate the transport sled survey research communities worldwide learned more at posters with Dr
Protecting independent journalism is important to all of that David Folkenflik explains
You know the reason you turn to an independent press is independent media is because you trust gets hold major institutions and major players accountable we need to be able to have the journalistic firepower and the legal backing and all the infrastructure to be able to be in the room where it happens both literally and figuratively and that's what WB or an NPR seek to provide everyday
Protect independent journalism become a sustaining member right now here's how
We're going one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or gives right online uh WB you are done or jak NPR's here in Studio ... to tell you we have fifty two hundred dollars that we need to raise and the next twenty minutes to stay
On track towards meeting are larger goal
And right now is the time to give that you're saying yeah call in ten minutes ago you know I'm busy right now no don't wait because right now we have a fifty percent match on the board that means whatever you pledge right now will go fifty percent farther thanks disingenuous listen listeners they've said they'll match what you give but
Only for the next four minutes so if you want to get in on that match you need to call right now call one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven and Gore go on line at W. B. U. R. dot org
This is the time to stretch your dollar and make the most impact that ten dollar a month to pledge becomes Fifteen in effect through the generosity but only a few minutes left to go on the fifty percent match
And think about the reasons that you give think about the diversity of voices
That you hear on our air you know one of the favorite things about public radio is its ability to sort of convene voices that you might not otherwise hear if you've been listening in the middle of the day today for example you've been hearing
Great reporting about politics in Texas for example here on our air in Boston and that's because we bringing experts from all over the country even around the world to bring you the information that you can't get anywhere else that's what you're giving to sustain a W. B. U. R. dot org or one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven
At right now you're getting to go give fifty percent more because whatever you give right now will be fifty percent more thanks these listeners that have
Decided to put their money up towards helping encourage other people to give to definitely be you are give to support just what you were just talking about your column and don't forget also you'll be entered into when this brand new Subaru either cross track or outback of twenty Nineteen model from
City side Subaru in Belmont remember we still have fifty two hundred dollars that we need to raise by the end of this hour and we have a fifty percent match that's on the board only for another three minutes so if you want to make your money give
Or go to go the furthest that it can possibly go now is the time to give don't delay on it pick up the phone and call one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or online at W.
B. U. R. dot org and we talk about those reasons that you love to tune into WB you or I don't take it just from us you know we're not imagining the reasons why people like to get in Tunisia and we actually asked the ... so if you're wondering is this just off the top of that no don't listen to some of your fellow listeners about why they give to support WB you are
At the point and for me to be a WBFO our member because it doesn't seem right that I wouldn't be getting all of them information on the news and find joy and some of the other programs if I wasn't paying for it and I wasn't supporting it
Gets nice opportunity to participate in the programming ideas that the
Stations [noise] I think we all get to say something of a money even if he feels modest among [noise] with that money we make something
Your financial support mix WVU are happen every day today called one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to a seven point of view our job is and it's just
Like you just heard that women say is what it doesn't take you know a million dollars we're not asking for a million dollar donation we're not asking for a hundred thousand dollar donation we're asking for a million people to give one dollar let's spread out a list spread out the the the the influence let's spread out the the the
Pain as as it may be let's spread it out that the w._b. war is not beholden to shareholders stakeholders were beholden to you the public and that's how we want it to be we're asking you if you can become a sustaining member a give five ten Fifteen dollars a month and remember that right now when you give
Your money goes fifty percent farther because this was on this is this this generous group of listeners who decided they want to encourage
Other people to give but it's only on the table if you call right now it will not be on the table in five minutes so make that call right now one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or you can go online stuff that you are
The snap on your smartphone if you're listening there don't delay on just do it now
This is fresh air I'm Terry Gross let's get back to my interview a journalist Michael ... author of the best sellers money ball and the big short which were adapted into films and the undoing project
His new book the fifth risk looks at the federal government under President Trump it seems to me are you in your book you're basically saying you could predict similar problems that the federal government was going to have under President Trump by looking at the transition
'em and looking at the ... candidacy so let's let's go to there the first chapter is about the transition before Trump wasn't even elected because the transition process is supposed to start with each candidate each candidate is supposed to be preparing
At some point as if they were going to become president so that their briefed and they're up to speed if they do become president so the first sentence in your book is Christina Chris Christie noticed at peace in the New York times that's how it all started what was the article Christie notice and what did this article start
So there was a piece in the times to describe the meeting that occurred between the Obama administration
And all of the remaining presidential campaign so it was Hillary Clinton's campaign Trump's campaign this was still the before the Republican primary was over there were four or five of the campaigns and had set representatives and the reason is that happening was
By law the outgoing administration is required to prepare for the transition and by law anybody who's likely to get elected
The candidates are the two major parties are required to prepare to receive the the briefings
And Christie saw this and he saw that the person that Trump's campaign said nothing about government and so we called Corey Lewandowski was running the campaign said look I'll go do it if no one else will because we really need someone someone who understands government to get involved
It surprised me that after learning that the Trump Administration had nobody who could fill this role in didn't seem to care very much about filling this role that Christie ... cello and supportive Trump and wanted to run their transition
I think there are a couple of things going on at once one is as Christian makes quite clear but as other people have pointed out
Trump didn't run to when he he didn't have an acceptance speech on the on the ... election he was running for as an exercise in brand building
And so his whole attitude towards preparing to be president was why bother
And when people told him he had to spend money either his money or campaign money to build a transition team he'd become furious and when you heard it was millions of dollars you'd scream at one point he said the Christie you know if we win you and I can leave the victory party two hours early and figure out everything we need to figure out about the government
So that they were both are smart yeah well that's if that's right so this is another theme that underlies all of this and that in the Trump operation
The presence of rich people Trump and especially in Jared Kushner there's this sense that
They both think that because they're rich they must be smart but the combination not way to spend the money not actually thinking he's gonna win and not being really interested in the subject at all leads Trump's to neglect the transition effort
But this is where it is curious Christie does wrangle a few million raise a few million dollars to abide by the federal law any bills actually
I think are quite good transition they had hundreds of people who were really qualified to go into the various departments and received the government for their ... the Obama administration is so the bottom and Mr Asian has has built this great course and how the government works it's it's you know hundreds of briefing books that have been compiled over the past year
And it's not an ideological briefings you give the same briefing whether the Democrat or Republican wins and it it really is just explaining how they dealt with problems so you understood so this is how we dealt with the Zika virus so if you have another pandemic or through a threat of pandemic
Here's how you might do it you might disagree with how we did it but but this is how we did it and an awful lot of what's supposed to go on there is just that this is these are the problems this is what this department does
... this is how you do it and Trump took all those people who are meant to receive those briefings and fired them the day after the election
So we had nobody to go into these places to receive the briefings why did he fire them
Protests independent journalism no and yet entered into all of the remaining prize drawings and our fall fundraiser including today's prize that our grand prize your choice of twenty Nineteen Subaru cross truck part of that
Provided by city ... give no that WVU our daughter was or call one eight hundred knowing zero nine nine to eight seven
Were funded by you our listeners and by couldn't ventures organizing special events throughout New England for science large and small their team is ready to bring your brand to life more it can ventures dot com slash create
An innuendo providing shading systems for businesses and homes their design team can help you find window treatments for light heat privacy and glare issues in human donated canned innuendo dot com [noise]
From Boston University you're listening to the point nine W. B. U. R. S. in Boston home a Boston's largest radio newsroom to point seven WB you wait his very eighty nine point one WVU wage Brewster and streaming at W. B. U. R. dot org
W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR News station
Live from NPR News in Washington I'm Laurie London President Trump is again answering questions about Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh he spoke to reporters just before departing the White House for Philadelphia
While I say that it's a very scary time for young men in America when you get the guilty of something that you may not be guilty of which is a very very very difficult time
The FBI meanwhile continues to investigate allegations of sexual assault and misconduct against Kavanaugh even as Republicans schedule a vote NPR's Windsor Johnston reports the agency is working toward a friday deadline to release the findings of its weeklong probe
The FBI has interviewed friends have both cats at all and his initial accuser Christine Blasey Ford
The agency has also spoken with a second woman who claims Kavanaugh exposed himself to her at a college party in the Nineteen eighties Democrat Chris Coons who sits on the Senate Judiciary committee says all sides need to brace for what ever comes to light
Agreeing that we should have a week for a Folsom but time and scope prescribed FBI investigation we have to recognize raises the possibility of Kavanaugh being cleared and the possibility of Dr Ford being corroborated
Senate Republicans say vote town Kavanaugh's confirmation will come later this week winter ... NPR News
The Pentagon says it has detected a suspicious substance on to ... that arrived at its mail screening facility NPR's Greg Myre e has more on this investigation
The Pentagon says the envelopes were discovered on Monday if the building where all incoming letters in packages are checked the building is on the Pentagon grounds but not inside the Pentagon itself
The FBI says its agents took control of the two letters on Tuesday Morning and the bureau is conducting a more detailed analysis neither the Pentagon or the FBI his officially identified the suspicious substance all other male that arrived at the Pentagon facility on Monday is currently under quarantine
Greg Myre ... NPR News Washington
Senator Bernie Sanders who has been a longtime critic of Amazon's pay practices is saluting founder Jeff Bezos for announcing that all employees will now be paid at least Fifteen dollars an hour
Today I Want to give credit where credit's is do we want to congratulate Mr ... for doing exactly the right thing
Wage increase takes effect November first
Impact on employees and their families Amazon is among NPR's financial supporters on Wall street stocks are rallying for a second straight day the Dow is not a hundred and sixty six points the S. and P. five hundred gains for this is NPR
News this is not a point nine WB you are on ... in Boston
Well it's not New York not Los Angeles and not Chicago Boston as the worst traffic in the country that's according to the company geo tab which gathered a year's worth of data through their own GPS products they found the Boston
And it was the largest drop an average speed during rush hour of any city in the U.S [noise]
A former janitor Logan Airport suing the contracting company that fired him saying they discriminated against him for his Roman Catholic faith or ... Cruz says a supervisor told him quote call your God do clean urine and quote
Massachusetts General hospital joining an international trial for an experimental drug to treat the bowl of virus
Country the hospital says that while there are ... currently no Ebola patients in the U.S preparedness is important in case of an outbreak in the forecast cloudy skies today with scattered showers highs and the upper sixties
More showers tonight Los dropped down to the mid fifties right now it's fifty eight degrees in Boston this used WVU are we're funded by you our
Listeners in Massachusetts General hospital where better research leads to better care innovative treatments for complex conditions to get you back to the life you love Mass General revolutionizing care
Once again this used WVU are jak levy ours here now in the studio with ... percent of the ah endless thread podcasts we're asking you to do your part and support the news here at this fall fundraiser we have an hourly goal of ten thousand dollars that we need to raise this hour to stay on targets
Towards meeting are larger goal of raising almost six hundred thousand dollars by the end of the day on Thursday it's a lot of money but we can get there with your support tens of thousands of people have pledged to support WB you argue
Now can become one of them here's how you do what you call one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven when you do that you get entered into when this trip for two to China with National Geographic expeditions and don't forget you can also pledge right online at our website W. B. U. R. dot org and pay Jackie
Said that was ten thousand dollars and we now in three o'clock yes ma'am okay so we need to show W. B. U. R. that'd be Tuesday two to three o'clock listeners mhm are uh are behind us or the best listeners [laughter] air the water out the challenge right away [laughter]
They are the ones that know how much this radio station means to them and they are going to support it because WB you are is there for them every day and they're going to pick up the phone right now and say hey
I'm going to be there for WB you are because I care about programs like fresh air that I'm listening to right now so if this sounds like you if you have not picked up the phone yet and then there for W. B. U. R. why not why not do it right now we need to stay on track we have an ambitious goal
But you are a part of the community that has kept WB you are strong and has made it stronger and stronger year after year and you can do that now for us let's get that ten thousand dollars well before three o'clock one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight
Seven I Love how you been in there for two minutes you're already throwing down the guy ... up jak fired I'm trying to raise ten thousand dollars this hour Amory says that should be no challenge for the listeners
Of two to three o'clock we're going to go back to the fresh air and just a second we've got to
An hour long conversation with a wreath of Franklin an archive interview with the late Aretha Franklin but remember when you pledge today at any level you will get entered into wind the sweepstakes we have today and today is your last day to get in on this if this trip for two to China with National Geographic expeditions
Ten days nine nights it includes roundtrip airfare meals accommodations and transportation all of this arranged by National Geographic a wonderful wonderful trip that you could win
Just by doing your part here to support the news at WBEZ you are one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or of course on line at W. B. you are without work
Who sorry we're down to Ninety five hundred dollars okay who's going to knock off that next five hundred dollars and the next five hundred dollars or five hundred dollars is you know not in your budget I totally get it I really do a let's think smaller how 'bout ten dollars a month how 'bout twenty dollars a month
Or maybe at one time contribution of of you know a hundred and fifty
Figure out what your part of that is right now because we're going to get to ten thousand dollars by the end of the hour and we need you to help us get there if everyone out there listening during this hour picked up the phone right now we'd be done like that because that's how this work
How that's how this works everybody says I value WB you are I wanted to stick around I got to do my part one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven is the number to call
Their gauntlet throwing may have helped us out we're done
To three o'clock listeners down to nine thousand but still nine thousand do that we need to raise by three o'clock to stay on target just fifty one minutes left
So don't delay on this make your call now make your pledge to say yes Wu are something that I Want to keep strong that I Want to keep vibrant
That I Want to keep independent and growing so that I can continue to have this reliable source of news and information here in the Boston area plus on top of that you're going to get entered into wind a stripper to to China with National Geographic expeditions and
I should say this because we are going to go talk up with a read the Franklin on fresh air
We've also got this special gift is thank you for you just pledged ten dollars about ten dollars a month to support the news you'll get a copy of read the Franklin's definitive soul collection as our thanks to you to to discuss the future a few drinks thirty of her best loved hits
Ah my dad and I think appreciated gifted artist we just
Didn't have that problem in our home rocking Woodley Roy used to come on when I Would come in from school it was a very very big uh R. and B. broadcast of the day when I was young girl and I would come in and put my books down and lie down on the floor and listen to rock and ... um my dad
Really appreciate it music he appreciated a gifted artist as I said and she never tried to limit us in any way with respect to music or anything like that
Was describing your new autobiography great performers like Nat Cole an Art Tatum knew your father and would sometimes be in your living room at the piano that must have been yeah that's true
Uh-huh uh Art Tatum was often a visitor in our home he was very good friend of mine dance a Oscar Peterson and a half the price uh um my yo yo Jackson of course James and he loves Sam Sam Cooke
A and he just a really very broadly appreciated um one's artistry when they were truly gifted and really good
We're listening back to the Nineteen Ninety nine interview I recorded with the reserve Franklin
Your support has helped us to preserve the thirty plus years of interviews that we have recorded
And if your support that helps us continue to bring you interviews with the artists creating a popular culture of our time we'll hear more of the interview after a break but first I'm asking you to become a member of the station thank you so much this is fresh air
... used WB you are on line to W. B. U. R. dot org jak NPR's here in the studio with Emory secrets in from our
Endless thread podcast you can do your part to support the news here at W. R. and help us reach our goal for this hour and here's where we stand we need to raise eighty five hundred dollars before three o'clock it's eighty five hundred dollars and the next thirty eight minutes in order to stay on track
Towards meeting or larger goal you moves fall fundraiser of
About five hundred and Seventy thousand dollars that we need to raise by the end of the day on Thursday that's a lot of money but we can get there and we can get there with your support for asking you to pick up the phone
Make the call the w._b. you are at one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or go right on line to W. B. U. R. dot org
One eight hundred nine zero nine
Nine to eight seven eighty five hundred dollars left to go in this hour okay so we have to bring that down to zero we're going to do that you don't have to donate the eighty five hundred dollars you yourself alone I mean if you can that is great and heads jak said we have a lot of money that we need to raise
Between now and the end of the day tomorrow so really do what you can for WB you are but let's think about it more as you just doing your part whatever that part is is it ten dollars a month is it twenty dollars a month
Or is it a one time contribution is that something that's easier for you you decide but here's a maybe a little extra a motivation for you here's Wendy Howland who is one of the people who has already done her part
To protect independent journalism I think everybody knows how polarized things are in this country and one of the things that I treasure about NPR is that they are more facts base and they are truly the fair and balanced medium
I don't always agree with some of the interviewees and I'm sure that other people don't agree with other interviewees but I think it's essential for us as a country to come together by trying to understand people that don't feel the same way as we do
And you can't do that unless you can listen to them
Wendy how in from the cats that she's done her part join her in doing your part if you value what she was talking about opinions that you might agree with opinions that you don't information that the kind of keeps you well rounded and grounded and you know having a real sense of what's happening in your community what's happening in the nation what's happening in the world
Do your part eighty five hundred dollars led to go left to go here what is your part of that one eight hundred nine zero
About eight thousand dollars already have in the next oh thirty five thirty six minutes or so we want to remind you also
That this is your last day to get in on this trip for two to China with National Geographic expeditions now that's a sweepstakes that you might win what you can definitely get use if you pledge of the ten dollar a month level will send you a copy of Aretha Franklin definitive soul collection as our thanks to you
For your gift again of ten dollars a month to disc CD features
Thirty Aretha Franklin's best love hits it also has some cover songs
Are like ... the Beatles Elena rigged the or her take on Simon and Garfunkel bridge over troubled waters is is a great uh either either get it for yourself if you want to read the Franklin fan you could get it for them and to also get entered into wind district for two to China with National Geographic expeditions
The number to call one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or online at W. B. U. R. dot org
And we're funded by you our listeners and by Geico protecting people and their vehicles for over Seventy five years guy go is proud to offer car insurance and more to Massachusetts drivers to
Additional information of Geico dot com or one eight hundred nine four seven auto parts one eight hundred nine four seven eight you'd see all
This is fresh air I'm Terry Gross
Let's get back to my Nineteen Ninety nine interview with a wreath of Franklin and interview we feel especially lucky to have recorded since she rarely gave interviews your support has enabled us to build our archive and were so grateful for it in this next part of the interview I read the tax about her friendship with the sole and gospel singer Sam Cooke
So let's hear from Nineteen ... recording Sam Cooke hit song
Da


Na

Na
Na

... with him cook
The great gospel singer turn soul singer how did you need [noise]
Salmon I met at a Sunday evening program that we had in our church I'm back in the early fifties and uh I was sitting there waiting for the program to start after church
And I just happened to look back over my shoulder and I saw this group of people coming down the aisle and oh my God the man that was leading them spam and his brother Elsie and
These guys were really super shy you know beautiful blue when navy blue and brown trench coats and
I had never seen anyone quite as attractive I'm not a male as attractive is Sam was um and so prior to the program I saw was kind of being stirred
Or in another way [laughter] [noise] well we've got crushed over from gospel to pop before you and what impact did it have on you and you know having a hip hop song on the radio
We were going down the highway we were somewhere in the south and uh my sister and I and the driver and maybe one or two other people in the car
We knew that he had left the gospel field and of course I was rather sad about fat but um as as we were driving we knew that he had recorded and just out of the dark
Seamus fabulous voice and it was Sam and it was his first record and he was singing you send me and there was just pandemonium in the car my sister and I just
Had a fit we really had to pull over and stop the car and settled down I Try to see him if his record you know it was like that you send me this is this race
I went in the car the driver really had to pull over
Well you're living in Detroit you when you decided to make pop records I mean the the obvious choice I suppose would have been Motown especially since Barry Gordy was a friend of the family I guess maternal was a very new label at the time but um did did you consider Motown
... says thank you for that before we get back to the Aretha interview I Want to urge you to support the station during its membership campaign thank you so much this is fresh air
Were funded by you our listeners and by commonwealth learning center one to one multi sensory instruction for students with learning challenges C O M M learn dot com learning differently teaching differently succeeding
And try to booksellers and cafe a Newbury Street no reopens family owned since Nineteen eighty four with a full service restaurant selection of books and gifts and nightly events
Nice used W. B. U. R. jak ... here in the studio with Amory secrets in to tell you about our full fundraiser we are ah
We have a goal we're trying to meet this hour and we do need to pick up the pace just a little bit if we want to meet that goal and the goal is we need to raise sixty three hundred dollars by three o'clock if we want to stay on target and meet are larger goal of this one fall fundraiser and ending this fall fundraiser
Strong and successfully or on Thursday so here's how you can do your part and help support the news here at W. B. U. art by calling one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or by going online to W. B. U. R.
Dot org yeah and if you are loving listening to Aretha Franklin as much as I Am
If we had that sixty three hundred dollars already I'd say just play or the rest of the you know that's just let's just do that but if you're enjoying this as much as I Am if you contribute ten dollars a month right now the w._b. you are you're going to get a copy of her definitive soul collection is our thanks to your uh for your contribution here it's a two disc
CD featuring thirty of her best love hits
It also has some has some of her best known covers and some lesser known covers that's the one eight hundred nine zero nine
Nine to eight seven is the number to call to get a little something back like
That as our thanks to you for doing your part but the reality is we've got to get that sixty three hundred dollars we know we can get their meaning to you out there listening to step up to the plate and chip in do your part whatever it is one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven
We're down to fifty nine hundred dollars we need to raise and the next Nineteen Minutes Eighteen minutes really or so and don't forget 'em you can get that Aretha Franklin a definitive soul collection is our thanks for ten dollars a month but any pledge at any level still gets you entered into wind district for two to China with National Geographic expeditions
Uh this is a ten day nine night trip that includes roundtrip airfare it'll be a private toward Beijing you'll go to Shanghai will go to see on where you can see the the terror caught a warriors that uh
Or outside the tomb of a ... to the first emperor of China and of course then you can hang out with giant pandas
At a ... at the chain do research base in Chengdu China this is a fantastic trip that you could win by doing your part to support the news here at W. B. U. R. so if you appreciate that if you want to try and win the strip now's the time to do it one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven
Jacque I Would bet that there are people out there listening who think that they have supported WB already I think that they have already become a member and and haven't or or maybe they gave a contribution you know a year ago and they thought
Oh that's it I'm done for the rest of my life but but really the news keeps coming and and we you know keep doing our best to bring you up programs like the one that you're hearing right now so considered becoming a sustaining member were you give a little bit of money every month
You you sign up we take care of it for you every month if you decide oh no I think I've committed too much money you can always change the amount if you realize oh you know what I Want to give a little bit more you can change it and the other direction too but it's a great way to make sure
That you're taking care of the radio station that that takes care of you every day one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven
Fifty nine hundred dollars to go fifty nine hundred dollars that we're trying to raise by the end of this hour in order to finish out this hour strong and keep us on pace towards meeting our gold
In this third this fundraiser on Thursday we can get there with yours for just fifty nine people calling in right now with a one hundred dollar pledge and we would be done with this hour as a goal
So pick up the phone make that call last chance to get in on this China trip you got to pledge today one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven four on line the W. B. U. R. dot org
Protect independent journalism no and get entered into all of the remaining fries drawings in our fall fundraiser including today's fries and
Your choice of a twenty Nineteen Subaru cross ... provided by city side Subaru a villa
Give no WVU our daughter were
Or call one eight hundred nine zero nine nine two weeks of [noise]
Funded by you our listeners and arts Emerson presenting hadn't is Shakespeare's only son takes center stage and
Converse what it means and what it costs to be hidden by the shadow was great ambition clashes with family in the Tour de force performance from a child's perspective now through October seventh at the Emerson paramount center arts Emerson dot org [noise]
I'm Terry Gross the stations membership campaign is underway to his gun deep into our archive for something special my Nineteen Ninety nine interview with Aretha Franklin when we left off we were talking about signing with the Atlantic records the label where she recorded her hits no your
Second single uh was respect which is I Believe ... deal a most requested Sean how did you end up singing this oldest readings on
[noise] ... well I heard Mr ... version of it I just loved it and uh I decided that I wanted to record it
And my sister Carolyn and I get together and I was living in a small apartment uh on the west side of Detroit and some piano by the window watching the cars go by
And uh we came up with an infamous lined the sock it to me line it was a cliche
Of the day actually we didn't just come up with it it was ... it really was cliche and uh some of the girls were saying that to the fellows like soccer to me and this way or sock it to me that way
Uh nothing sexual and it's not sexual it was non sexual just a a cliche learning
But anyway I'm laughing picked it up and it just kind of perpetuated itself and went on from there
Let's hear Aretha Franklin singing respect [noise]
Okay


[noise]
What did this mean to you when you sang it I mean really part of the backdrop of this song it was it was a hit during the civil rights movement
And I think you know respect had a a lot of meanings or in the song for your listeners one was you know just the respect you wanted from the men in a relationship but it also had I think a larger residence with the civil rights move them to you know kind of larger social cultural sense of respect
Yes in a in later times it was picked up as a battle cry by the civil rights movement but when I recorded it uh it was
Pretty much a male female kind of thing and and more in a general sense from person to person a I'm going to give you respect and
I'd like to have but respect back or I expect respect to be given back
Give now by calling one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven four going online to W. B. U. R.
We're funded by you our listeners are Samaras said was Shakespeare's measure measure shockingly cars October twenty fourth to Twenty years old my cameras and colors or just the creative arts ... dot org [noise] the the west catering to the exchange catering for all life's occasions fires I
Use the sweat tutoring dot com leader photography reading portraits of stories for life
And work pictures talk at least Linder dot com [noise]
From Boston University you're listening to Ninety point nine W. B. U. R. S. embassy to home of Boston's largest
Radio news room to point seven WB you wait his very eighty nine point one WVU wage Brewster and streaming at W. B. U. R. dot org W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR News station
Line from NPR News in Washington I'm Laurie London President Trump is celebrating what she calls the biggest trade deal in us history NPR's Scott Horsley reports the updated agreement with Mexico and Canada could get a boost to American dairy farmers and auto workers
The deal amounts to a rewrite of the quarter century old NAFTA agreement which President Trump is often criticized it gives American dairy farmers new access to the Canadian market and is designed to encourage more auto production in the United states more auto parts in automobiles
Will be manufactures inside the United states we will be manufacturing many more cars
With the White House deadline approaching candidates signed onto the deal late Sunday night the agreement leaves in place for now us tariffs on imported steel and aluminum as well as the retaliatory tariffs the Canada and Mexico imposed in response Scott Horsley NPR News Washington
The White House has released a memo analyzing the testimony of Christine Blasey Ford by the prosecutor who question before the Senate last week NPR's Kelsey Snell reports that sex crimes specialist Rachel Mitchell says she believes forwards accusations would create a weak case
Senate Judiciary committee Republicans hired Mitchell to question forward about her accusations that Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh sexually assaulted her more than Thirty years ago in the no no but just as she does not thinking reasonable prosecutor would bring a case based on the evidence or present it
Which is their forward identified witnesses who either refuted her allegations or failed to corroborate them she also says sports lack of details about the party where she alleges the attack took place undermined her clean
The FBI is now investigating fourth accusation against cabinet and another accuser who had come forward in recent weeks Kelsey Snell NPR News Washington
Tropical storm Rosa is no longer a hurricane bond is still a serious whether a threat for a large portion of the U.S southwest senior hurricanes specialist Richard patch with the national Hurricane Center
The main threat from Rosa is not the wind but rather the rain and it's for the bring very heavy rains to portions of north central Baja California state of ... and ... and the desert south west and southwest United States
He says the storm is already producing wrenching downpours we expect
A rainfall tools to be as high as six inches in some isolated areas and this is going to produce um some serious flash flooding
Flash flood watch areas include that are not limited
And Salt Lake city there is also potential for landslides and debris flows in places where wildfires
Scarred the terrain socks are rising sharply after the U.S and Canada agreed to a new trade deal that includes Mexico the Dow is not two hundred and five points this is NPR
News this is not the point nine WB you are on Jack ... in Boston hundreds are gathering in Boston today to protest the confirmation process for Supreme Court nominee Brett Kavanaugh among them are prominent Democrats like Boston city council awry on Presley at New York congressional candidate all Alexandria Ocasio Cortez
They say the allegations of sexual misconduct against cabinet are credible and disqualify him from sitting on the Supreme Court
[noise] a student government body of Harvard's calling on the university to launch its own investigation into allegations of sexual assault against judge Kavanaugh most taught at Harvard for more than ten years he's scheduled to teach a course their next semester former
President Brock Obama's endorsing six Democrats running for office in Massachusetts list includes gubernatorial nominee Jay Gonzales and congressional nominee I own a Presley [noise]
In the forecast we'll see mostly cloudy skies today a chance at a shower with high in the low to mid sixties cloudy tonight Los dropping down to the mid fifties and then tomorrow cloudy scattered showers highs in the mid to upper sixties right now it's sixty one degrees in Boston this is W. B. U. R.
Were funded by you our listeners invite Geico protecting people and their vehicles for over Seventy five years Geico is proud to offer car insurance and more to Massachusetts drivers to additional information at Geico dot com or one eight hundred nine four seven auto that's one eight hundred nine four seven a huge T. O.
Again this is W. B. U. R. jak ... here in the studio with Jerry Goldberg telling you about our fall fundraiser where we're asking you to make your pledge become a sustaining member of WB you are and help support the news here
That helps bring you the news and information that you held on call one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or you can go right on line to W. B. U. R. dot org
And today is a nice example of the kind of coverage that you support when you support W. B. U. R. we have a leadership change that General Electric we have a sorry I I buried the lead we have Senator Jeff flake here in Boston you will be hearing our political coverage of that rally and meeting throughout the day
All of this kind of coverage is what you get when you call one eight hundred nine zero nine Ninety eight
Seven and we want to remind you today is your last day to get entered in for this trip for two to Tuscany courtesy of experience plus eight days seven nights a trip for two that includes round trip airfare
Uh they'll provide local tour guides chalk arrow navigation daily briefings support band to carry your luggage so it's not like you got to love your suitcase on the back of a bicycle and they have Thirty years of experience leading cycling tourists this is a great sweepstakes but you can only when
When you call and pledge you support the w._b. you argue can of course do it on line to W. B. U. R. dot org or you can just call one eight hundred nine zero nine
Nine to eight seven the whole process only takes a minute or two so why not do it
Now and jak here's a medical fact that I just made up okay if you do have that much biking it means you can eat unlimited Italian food and never gain any weight exactly it's a very ... and here's one more little sweetener that we shouldn't forget that you receive up Paris
Tickets to see the Capitol Steps live as our thanks for your gift of ten dollars per month so donate ten dollars you might have
A laugh on us with the Capitol Steps performance of their new show it's called make America great again and the ... theater and keep it it would be Saturday November twenty four and eight pie I mean I have to say at this morning's news meeting at W. B. like
Someone had to do is say Matt Damon and everybody crackdown 'cause everyone had seen Saturday Night live political times like these need humor to help us get through them and you could probably use a visit to the Capitol Steps which is what you get if you donate ten dollars a month
One eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven is the number to call you could of course go online to W. B. U. R. dot org or you can do it right from your smartphone there's little heart button right there on the smartphone app of WB you argue can flick it right there don't forget ten dollars a month you can get a pair
Of tickets to go see the Capitol Steps live as our thanks you'll also be entered into wind is sweepstakes this trip for two to Tuscany courtesy of experience plus cycling tourists
Is eight days seven nights in Tuscany, Italy a ten thousand dollar value that you could win just by doing your part to support the new year WB you are but you need to pledge to day to get in on that sweepstakes one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to a seven or on line that you are dot org [noise]
He'll be the worst supporters include the Harvey Ball celebrate Easter smiley face with a ball honoring the community with her full idioms October fourth
Worcester cultural coalition
Yeah I Would be providing a software platform that enables organization to deploy artificial intelligence
Predicted analytics an I O T solutions and industrial scale learn more it see three I O T dot a I
This is fresh air and Terry Gross President Trump has denied Russia interfered in our election movies equivocal hated
In spite of the evidence presented by American intelligence agencies and journalists when other reporters who was broken stories that have revealed new information to the public about that interference and about connections between the Trump campaign and Russia
Is my guest Greg Miller he covers intelligence and national security for the Washington Post
This year he shared a Pulitzer Prize for national reporting
Now he's written a new book called The Apprentice Trump
Russia innocent version of American democracy it's a chronological narrative connecting many of the most important stories on this subject and adding new reporting to those stories Greg Miller welcome to fresh air is there a story that you helped break the you consider the most consequential story
And then the White House ...
Comes back to us cause me it through a spokesman calls me and says for the first time
A Mr Flynn is no longer certain that those sanctions were not discussed in that column he can't be sure that the subject didn't come up
And that was just so different from the categorical denial we had gotten I don't know sixteen hours earlier that we knew that we were we knew we were right and that's when we published
[noise] so when Flynn was forced out of the Trump Administration
... how did that feel free to do you do feel like proud that you'd broken such a consequential story [noise]
Um do you feel like good like truth has been out there and that's what I've driven Latino and it feels like that is now is a really sure if they're really big thing very very early in the Trump Administration
All the all of the above Terry so sure absolutely proud of our of our work proud that we would have been able to accomplish something of such consequences proud that we were um
You know especially in this climate where the process is under constant siege an attack that we were able to do work that still mad that that mattered in your head immediate impact all of that [noise]
I mean that that part of it felt great um I mean for me I had I had actually known Flynn for
For a long time probably a decade or so had interviewed him many times I'm overseas and at the Pentagon and other positions
And always liked him I took no pleasure in his ouster I'm In his his resignation um and what came next for him I mean that didn't that didn't make me happy but at the same time it just the I yeah I mean it was
As a reporter there is there is nothing better than to be able to get to the bottom of a complex story that there are so many people who are trying to prevent you from getting it
[noise] did you face consequences did you get ... a lot as a result of having an ... lie
I mean the ... ... ... absolutely so troll to lot attacked a lot um
And that has not really a beta [laughter]
I mean that that continues now not just for me but for a lot of reporters covering the this administration at this really highly politically charged time where we're living through
I'm On the other hand we're things happened that had never happened to me as a reporter um several of us started getting carts ... actual letters in the in the mail or thanks for readers from far away places
Um notes on on our even on my doorstep at home I Would walk through the neighborhood and suddenly people would stop me and thank me and
I mean that was ... that was felt great too and it was odd it was something I had never experienced
Let's take a short break here and then we'll taxing more if you're just joining us my guess is Washington Post reporter Brad Miller he covers intelligence and national security he's part of the team that shared a Pulitzer this year for national coverage his new book is called The Apprentice Trump Russia innocent version of American democracy
We'll be right back this is ...
Were funded by you our listeners and by the cardiovascular Institute at Beth Israel Deaconess where experienced cardiac surgeons performed the full range of surgical hearts therapies to restore a Arctic valves mitral valve and coronary arteries more info it'd be I DMC dot org slash CDI
This used W. B. U. R. jak ... here in the studio with Jerry Goldberg to tell you about our fall fundraiser just taking a short break through fresh air and we'll get back to the news
But we want you to know that listeners support like yours is a big chunk of how we pay for programs like this
It's how we are able to pay to bring you the news and keep you supplied with the news and information that you count on every single day so we're asking you to do your part make a pledge call one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or you can get right on line and W. B. U. R. dot org and we want to remind you that when you do that when you
There didn't win the sweepstakes a trip for two to Tuscany, Italy courtesy of experience plus but today is your last day to get you know the sweepstakes so if you want to get in now is the time to pledge call one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to ...
You know the segment that you're listening to right now on fresh air with a journalist Greg Miller the national security correspondent for the Washington Post
Is an example of that kind of long take that you can sometimes on WB or you get a whole hour to try to wrap your head around something tried to dig in and unpack and understand something and that's fairly unique to W. B. you are on the air
And then you also get mixed in there the short takes you get hundreds of people on the city hall plaza this morning right demonstrating in front of Senator Jeff flake
All of that comes together and that sort of the the the mixture this salad of news and conversation and and analysis that you get at W. B. U. R. healthy for a border that will not let go at it and and you need
Three of those kinds of content you need the depths and do you need the brevity and you need the timeliness and and you just need to get you know the the range of what's happening in the world which is what you get here
One eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven to the number to call you could of course going lodged W. B. U. R. dot org and the context is what I feel is is missing in a lot of other news sources you know it's easy to get
You know a minute and a half you know sort of updated on you know where the Supreme Court nomination is or where the Russia investigation is but you don't get these hour long conversations
You know a lot of other places and that's why I think
The public radio is really so valuable in this this news environment that we have now this is your chance to really
You know getting when you get away from the drip drip drip of news headlines you know if you lose stuff you know ... I'm I'm a pretty high volume consumer of news and I miss stuff and so this is your chance or just catch up like okay what the heck is actually going on if you appreciate that like I'm pretty sure you do because you're listening now
Now is the time to support it make that pledge call one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven and
At the same time get yourself entered into when the sweepstakes this trip for two to Tuscany currency courtesy of experience plus
Right next to the feeling that like I just can't keep up with everything I Need someone to just tell me what I Need to know and that's what you hear hear on WB why and if you donate now to support WB you are you receive a pair of tickets to see the Capitol Steps allied
As our thanks for your get ten dollars per month it's your little from the steps how
Long [noise] be
Me
I got
Down [noise]
[noise]
So yes a jacket and I are assuming that that is a millennia character who's singing I must say I can't help it imagine I'm hoping that they'll get a song done that concerns the cabinet hearings by the time they perform they will be performing November twenty fourth at eight PM at Sanders Theater in Cambridge and against the get there
You donate ten dollars a month and you get a pair of tickets
Just ten dollars a month to do your part to support the news here WB you are if you can go higher if you can do Fifteen dollars a month of you can do twenty dollars a month
Now's the time to make that pledge it's one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven that's number to call
Of course you can do it right on line from W. B. U. R. dot org it only takes about two minutes to do it there you could even do it if you're listening on your smartphone
You can do it right from the smartphone app or just click that little heart button in the middle there you can do it any which way it's never been easier to do it so why not do it now and at the same time remember the sweepstakes that we've got ... for two to Tuscany courtesy of experienced floods plus
It's a cycling trip of Tuscany the Tuscany region of Italy north western Italy dish um this is just cycling tore it
Eight days seven nights a trip or to the includes round trip airfare instead of ten thousand dollar value
That you could you could get for just pledging and supporting the news here at W. B. U. R. do your part to be a good citizen for the Boston community and maybe maybe get yourself a really really nice vacation with a positive one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven were online the w._b. you are Donald
Independent journalism now and get entered into all of the remaining price drawings in our phone fundraiser including our grand prize your choice of a twenty Nineteen plus track or outback provided vice city side who rules Belmont
Give now at W. B. U. R. dot org one call one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven
Greg Miller Washington Post reporter who covers intelligence and national security he shared a Pulitzer Prize this year and now he's written a new book called The Apprentice Trump Russia and the ... version of American democracy and it kinda brings together a lot of stories about candidate and President Trump and the Trump Administration
That ten dollars a month or maybe give twenty dollars a month and that's where you can do whatever the amount is that you can give is the right amount to give just know that we are counting on your support right now the number is one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven and the website is W. B. U. R. dot O. R. G.
And of course I mean if you prefer to make a a larger payment all at once that's fine if you want to do a hundred dollars two hundred dollars you can go as high as
Five hundred dollars or a thousand dollars that's great you know we think that maybe the monthly donation option becoming a sustaining number as we call it a might be a little bit easier for your bank account it it it certainly helps us sort of you know plan out our revenue and get a better sense of
How much that we can depend on you know we're asking you to join the tens of thousands of people who have given to WB you are in the past that's why there will be you are here now they're we're here
Because in years past people donated people were said this is something that I Want to support and I want to keep strong and growing in the Boston area that means now it's your turn to step up that WVU are can continue to be here and continue to be this reliable source of news and information that other people
Can discover and learn to grow and learn to count on as the time goes on and remember get yourself into when the sweepstakes district for two to Tuscany courtesy of experience plus
And I do think it's an important point that when you donate you're giving WB you are to the entire community you're you're paying for everybody else who needs to be getting their news reliable independent
And important news and if you are considering becoming a sustaining number I Would just note that
For ten dollars a month you get these capital steps tickets and there are not many of them left so if you're feeling like you could use a good belly laugh after the last few days I Would strongly suggest that you call now donate ten dollars a month and get the tickets to the Capitol Steps
The number is one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven website where you can give is W. B. U. R. dot org and make no mistake the support we are asking you for is the best way to fund independent journalism and protected
We as a matter of policy do not accept political advertising on WB you are
That's important because a lot of radio stations a lot of TV stations in an election season
That is a financial boon to them WB orange the opposite we Baron added expense covering an election on top of all the other news that we'd normally be covering and that's why it's really important not to sit out this fundraiser give what you can whether it's the ten dollars a month or a hundred dollars
Thousand dollars whatever you're able to do what is the essential support that keeps WB you are independent and protects this kind of journalism
The number is one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or you can give it W. B. U. R. dot O. R.
G. and remember it's not like you're not going to get anything in return when you pledge to support the support the news here WVU our first off you get the news and the programming that you count on you know that your money is going to help the news here at W. B. U. R. secondly ten dollars a month or scary said you get to a pair of tickets to see the Capitol Steps lives our thanks to you
And third your entered into this sweepstakes a trip for two to Tuscany courtesy of experienced plus this is a fantastic possible vacation fantastic vacation you could when when you do your part to support the news
Let's hear from Maria Elena price she's the co owner of experience plus and she has a little bit about exactly what you would see if you win this tour
A lot of people are surprised by them out to pre Roman history that they did they attracting coast and the attracting themselves where you know the precursor to a Roman really in fact some people think they kind of became part of the Roman um
Roman Empire but they were around in the fourth you know it's the fourth century bc and there's Kim's at archaeological areas that you can visit on this trip that I think a lot of people are surprised by that they're so used to seeing Relman and post Roman history in Italy you just can walk into the picture perfect little ... sit down and have a
Wonderful ... which you know at the cafe and if you're like All right and you know the people who are walking around having coffee with you are just
Such a great idea of you know just something that you could experience if you win the sweepstakes this trip to Tuscany courtesy of experience plus you got to pledge now because today's the last day to get in on this sweepstakes so if you want to pledge and maybe when a trip to Italy
Now's the time to call one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or pledge right on line at W. B. U. R. dot or
I think you know copy Chino and the Piazza is sounding very we right now but the most important when you pledge you pay for us to cover the news and you know we're just a few minutes away from radio Boston will be having segments on the G E shake up the ... the
... the shake up that's left chairman John ... out and we'll also be talking about Massachusetts secret court these sort of
The here and then we'll of course be looking at Senator Jeff flake here in Boston this morning so you get the gamut of news you get a sense of everything that's going on around here that you need to know and that's what your money really goes for when you give to WB
You are you can do it now at W. B. U. R. dot org or one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven
And Jack I just want to mention too that trip to Italy that is valued at about ten thousand dollars the sort of trip you may have always wanted to do you may never find the means to do it so here is your chance but that chance and today
One eight hundred nine zero nine nine to a seven is the number to call you can of course go on line to W. B. U. R. dot org ten dollars a month gets you a pair of tickets to go see the Capitol Steps is our thanks for your gifts
And any donation at any level gets you entered into the sweepstakes to win a trip to Tuscany, Italy courtesy of experience plus eight days seven nights roundtrip airfare call one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to a seven will go on lines W. B. U. R. dot [noise]
We're funded by you our listeners and by Dana Farber Brigham and women's Cancer Center where I patients are cared for by a team specializing in their exact type of cancer patients can schedule and next day appointment learn more at you have a diet or [noise]
This is fresh air and Terry Gross back with Greg Miller who covers intelligence and national security for the Washington Post and is the author of the new book The Apprentice Trump Russia and the ... version of American democracy
Miller has broken several stories about Russian interference in the election and connections between the Trump campaign and Russia
This year he shared a Pulitzer Prize for national reporting
When we left off he told us that when you ask Republican congressman Devin Nunes as chair of the house intelligence committee about connections between Russia and the Trump campaign
Nunez responded that it was a dead trail no connection you've talked about how Devin noon as the chair of the house intelligence committee
Through sand in your face by basically
Denying maybe lying about any connections between the Trump Administration and Russia and Russian interference in the election the question comes up why didn't we know more
About Russian interference before the election 'cause the Obama administration knew about it the intelligence agencies
And we're on the what was happening and the intelligence agencies strongly felt that Russia intended not just a mess with that but to discredit Hillary Clinton [noise]
There was a lot of Republican opposition to making any of this public and a lot of that opposition came from Senate majority leader Mitch McConnell can you describe the way he tried to prevent anything from going public about Russian interference
There's a long gap between when the U.S government through its intelligence services learns what Russia's doing and when the public finally learned about it a and there's a lot of second guessing even now about why the Obama administration didn't tell the public more or earlier
There are scenes in the book I write about in late August or the early August timeframe late July timeframe John Brennan who was CIA director at the time becoming increasingly concerned about what was happening the WikiLeaks dump it already occurred
He sort of holes himself up inside his office at CIA headquarters on the seventh floor for two straight days deep into the night each day poring over all of the agencies Russian intelligence at the end of this exercise
He's just convinced that Russia and he has any sitting on new intelligence in fact the tells him that the Kremlin is playing a bigger game here than anybody has to that point realized that they're not just in it to try to disrupt the election but they are trying to help elect Trump and damage Hillary Clinton
And he calls the White House that week calls them in early August I Need to get in to see the president
After his meeting with Obama the game plan involves burned and then trying to reach out to congressional leadership this is sort of an all hands on deck moment for the U.S government they want to make sure the leadership in Congress is aware of what's happening in the election to Brennan starts calling
You know the Senate and house leadership to committed the leadership of the committee to relevant committees and so forth and setting up one on one briefings with these people and uh that's really unusual for CIA director to do
And he finds you know that the Democrats are lining up at his door that to to me and learn about what's happening Republicans are putting them off
