Learn look relive your hopes the decision will force Julie ... negotiations over transferring learned along to lose ... coastline BBC News
[noise] [noise] hello this is the ... on the BBC weld service I'm Nicky baby he would sixty minutes of the best liberal arts and culture conversation from across the b._b._c. coming up on the show in a moment to global pop icon Janet Jackson on making music videos like they used to
But you sing in some way to ... and many K tells us he hopes being openly gay and his music will help other people Hollywood style blend closed tells us what she thinks about remaking the classic film she starred in fatal attraction but this time from the demonized other woman's perspective
It would be wonderful to tell the exact story from her point of view because there's so much about are there wasn't clear you know it was left to people's imagination
Or on the program the old gal skateboard collective you inspired new movie skate kitchen and re in front man Michael ... revealed he's hatred of pop music
Doing me to discuss the oil that's until about dad liked his projects my two guests in the studio all American author and TV created Jonathan Ames and British by Mimi ... yes ...
Well let me ask you something before we have from Janet Jackson Algerian musician
Rushing ... died last month I Love his cover of the class you know
So often very companies remake standing out to the original and we've been asking you on Facebook for your favorite ... let me off my CD I guess to yes do you have a favorite kind of action
Yeah I Do um I loved Django Bates um fashion of New York New York um yeah it's ... it's very wild yeah it is a great cup a lot of people will be seeking that out and I wonder about you
I Love a Johnny Cash as rendition of the song hurt which I think it was originally by Trent rose nor I think when I have moments of self pity and regret about all the mistakes are made in my life this song because he he talks about his empire of dirt
What does that tell us about you Jonathan names I Wonder [laughter]
More and environment at Macy's will at some of you sang on Facebook silly among Mohammed the auto from Yellen Nigeria says ... the ... George uncover usage says hello from Kampala Uganda says coffee in Brazil by ...
And David ... New Zealand says old alone to watch how Jimi Hendrix
[noise]
Jackson is a global icon with staying power over Korea spending more than four she is she's one ground
It's even a Golden Globe she's so bold than a hundred and eighty million records and that hasn't been dislodged loves around us into a famous wardrobe malfunction of the two thousand and says Superbowl ... isn't even for a new album it's a single
Made from them and the BBC's Chris Evans off to about the tracking [noise]
You're back with a new single on video for this for the single feels like a good old fashioned mega videos so nice to see a proper film again
Is ... thank you so much it it it it feels like the old days again
I threw the passed away and the cockroach since I'm unable to kill anything directly even cock roaches with which our apartment was infested though no one had ever been so brave estimate my food after dumping the pasta I bought some more water and started all over
Henry From us coach told me to wash my dish an added that I should always washing my dishes before eating he
Explained to me teaching me some survival rules after all that are cock roaches we're walking all over our plates while we slept leaving behind in invisible trail of germs so we were to wash dishes before eating as well as after
He came into the kitchen and rent to play to demonstrate this special to step methods first hot water to get rid of the cockroach germ she said
Than coal to get rid of the lead from the hot otherwise you died in New York has led into hot water that you might not have learned in New Jersey Henry looked at me intently to make sure that I understood the lesson and then said ... for cockroach cold for less hot for cockroach cold for led
By God it I said well don't catch on to quickly that's the problem with staff once they know what to do they leave
It was a backhanded compliment but it made me feel good he didn't want me to leave
Oh I'd love that thank you so much I Know that you have a boxing named the herring wanting to because you have actually boxed into that yet why did you do that
I got into the ring because I had a romantic notion of fighting you know lifting up those ropes and getting in there it was almost like when I was a child I used to
Wrap towels around my neck and pretend to it was a Cape than I was a superhero so boxing was a chance in real life to play hero to and then I got in the ring and I discovered oh we'll one it's terrible to be hit and I know you're I've learned a lot about brain injuries since they're not very good to be pounded in the head
And then it was terrible to hit other people I I Would hit someone and I'd see their face grim is and I would say oh I'm Sorry in my trainer the course of don't apologize [laughter] method that point of it
Or I should say I was called the herring wonder
Because at the time and I still do I ate a lot of herring
And I followed it you know it's a it's a fish low on the food chain so doesn't have a lot of mercury has a lot of oils and it's good for the brain especially if you're getting hit so that blows out of the brain killed some brains out
But the oils from the herring build them back up so you're sort of maintain an equilibrium and Disney sting well yes that was my other thinking was to have herring breath in a way to further repel my opponent so I Would come into the ring
With a jar of herring in my hand you know like a white with spinach and then my fans in the audience were waving silver herrings
But then you said this is another thing I could be a really good deterrent for you or some way of like putting off your pain that you make some very strange noise yes that go back to your fourth grade school days I Believe because you were in a in a little town called ... Harry eight times
Yes it will in the fourth grade I was with a bunch of friends and I think you would appreciate this as a musician but we would make these sounds do without it began to very loud sound called the Harry call and I'll do one now yeah
And his wife yeah well my wife and the Mike and for the people out in the world a step away from your radios perhaps the moment but here's a here's a hair recall
On getting just my ... standing who's like a Shakespearean actor oh somebody's got to throw a chaplain Nathan yes yes
Yes as a musician you wait what she just ... yeah ten out of ten
[laughter] I've never had a satellite that before the extra non is out now published by one and imprinted push can press as he's Jonathan's you inevitably here who say published by one and you'll staying with us for more than ...
More music conversation now on the ... and ... and any case he debut album language was released this month
That you've made well nine and any Cape ... for his writing in production on tracks like nice

[laughter] she
[laughter]
[noise]
[noise]
[noise]
[noise]
I'm Glad you're older or
Learn about all of your uh
Learned about your
Brother
Little a little ... wings jak Jones beach in right you don't know what I mean these are lost in an ... never forget you know the two and then they of course a bloody by grace storms e featuring M. N. E. K. I.
Huge track so the guy who was involved and rising order so it's not just the rise to end up ... announce it in his arm rice called him in each case he is six foot five of
Just flamboyant and gracious talent and he's now releasing his own album language and he's
With a ... billion streams the songs I've done a billion streams
You'll creativity you artistry
As creative billions dreams which is really cool this is amazing what music in there I Know right but what about ... something wider about you as a person and you as a husband ... but also a gay man
How has that influence people to get in contact with you and share their experiences how do you think that has to change people's perceptions
Our fingers just them seeing someone like themselves or at least figuring out things like they are I think is very helpful
And I think it was something I I wanted to explore this time around because I was very aware as I was making the album and I was I was struck and stuff out for this record that I just didn't I didn't see someone that I can relate to
That would tell me about being blocking gays okay the bidding streams next to one message from someone who sees what you're doing and they message and they say thank you so much for this album thank you so much because it helped me come up to my friend's
Thanks so much because it's helped me calling from my parents and I want to be a bad me because I see it being the best year that adds purpose to my career
I feel that was it was fascinating watching the video if it's on ... and it struck me how little I see a representation of two men looking at each other in that way about how much they love all the passions that they have for each other here are a kind of rare it is still ... so
That's weird in twenty Eighteen the truth is I think that the
Cool thing about the video for me because I Love that they are so ... is the much very bitter of every darn intrigues me to spark conversation and I'm to open up people's minds to war I see is no more on top normalize it immigrants game
And then he came and he did a strict ... nice to foment cities try color from the new album language in this day I said let's have ended up they give him an action
Are we to ramble
Let's talk about personal disclosure for ... than I mean as a musician and someone in the public eye yes do you feel responsibility to reveal your personal life
To me I use my music to reflect my mixed heritage and um yeah my journey along that path and discovering who I Am
[noise] say in the second person to shake gang teach so much more about your music and indeed here and that's a bad uh Jonathon revealing oneself in one ...
Do you think it's a duty well I don't know if it if it's a duty
You know not every writer has to be autobiographical draw upon themselves but if you can write something to make other human beings feel less alone during their time on the planet like he's doing with his music than maybe there's a young people out there that can accept themselves
Can go way there's a lot more to come and the sounds back after this
[noise] distribution of the b._b._c. World Service in the U.S has made possible by American public media producer and distributor of award winning public radio content
Eight PM American public media with support from Drexel University Drexel University is academic bottled prepares visionary leaders to address the challenges of a changing world more at Drexel dot edu slash ambition can't wait
From Boston University does is Ninety point nine W. B. U. R. Boston's NPR
It was an analysis that WVU or [noise] this is Charlie goal Hayes in sports red sauce and the regular season played with the tend to to wind up with the New York Yankees Sunday at Fenway Park the patriots beat the Miami Dolphins thirty eight seven in ... world mostly cloudy overnight lows in the mid fifties
And I'm the only way I could get these next was to have this instrument created to me
And what is our big jazz how would you send me town
It's using our big scales Arabic rhythms I'm mixing those with elements of jazz jazz harmony and physician
[noise] we had a little bit of a ... cooled inhaled just as we started speaking and it is from your twenty Seventeen album lot ...
Uh we talk about well you could be helping the environment the I just wonder why I thought the space between the fish and the moon is a good example of some Arabic jobs how would you sum up this track I Wonder if the two main
The title is a quote from every me putting them so I'm ...
I'm a ... century poets in mystic and um I find him very inspiring this trying for me is the most jobs the U.S on the album
But they're still elements of 'em are big scales I'm an improvised station and a mystery to it as well
[noise]



[noise]
Well we just ... and Jonathan immediately off to walk [noise]
Well I I was wondering if your scored for films 'cause you're mentioning your food with Rubio had been drawn agreement orders Ruben become such a big composer for ... and ... is that something that you've considered or appeals to
It definitely appeals to me because I Do like to associate images with sounds so yeah
The album is called ... to ... which means walk ceased to to push and sabotaging either female ...
Yeah exactly so um it's dedicated I'm ... I suppose in five as well um by my innocence protests semi and to me is the thing is I I mean ...
Creative people and I suppose everyone really has this in a ... you know the the voice that tells you a new good and so this this kind of this thing can be you know if a destructive
And send me it has affected me a lot in my development as a musician and but I found a way to sort of combat these feeling so we've given ha
And name she's a ... to now and you know when she pops up in my mind I just say oh that's the ... she's trying to destroy man's I just ... and it's just a really good way of some sort of the ... yeah
So that you you were born in the u._k. you grew up until about the age of nine in ... really sort of musical influences you think that gave you well if there was music all around
I mean ... there was the music and Bahrain on the streets you know
There's a big tradition of ...
And um when the ... go out to um Fisher pals they have some say what songs to encourage each other
You know to go through this would have done long John nice of you know hoping to discover up piles and that kind of crap tend to me without me sort of realizing it until I'm I reached my twenties
But um my mom was a ballet dancer and so she would play 'em ... to me um I remember her favorite um album was the right to spring
Plus Devinsky I'm ...
I'm an abstract mild peace to play two young children my loan debt I'm my grandfather was the ...
A record producer as well so I have read brown last yeah and so I was introduced to jazz up a young age and yeah the musical over the house and so now I
Really love the sound of your new project for next year we saw um police Tim nice sweet am I pronouncing that correctly ... ... yeah I'm not name multiple ... yeah
It some names off to I'm a greet me I Can't remember which
When somebody and you know and we don't mind [laughter]
Yeah how about that so it's a sweet inspired by
Female role models so there is one maybe when I'm inspired by the suffragette movement
And um I take one of the anthems and rearrange it and sort of a a ... and and make it into my own my own style
And this one dedicated to a lot I used to say and how un speech um when she was sixteen already in the middle of was the little girl he was shot through the head but I ... yeah
And it's very emotional speech I recommend yeah anyone to to watch it um it will make you cry definitely um so I've taken parts of a speech and I'm created music ... to have a voice is very uh arithmetic and um
Um what about Saudi Arabia's only female director for a month so yeah
She's real inspiration is a ... film watched on which is beautiful I'm a girl
He wants to bicycle have you seen that Jonathan are always beautiful yeah yeah
It's very touching and um so I wanted to write something I'm reflecting the S. and M. O. C. using ... scales I'm On a used one I'm for this one called the adjusts scale which I think is originally from Saudi Arabia above yeah it's a show
And Rosa Parks and really bridges we can't wait for that to happen in the meantime if people are in London you are the ... sell them
At the south ... on the list of books to about
... ... is that now I'm ... remakes is also out now I'm annual staying with us like you say much yes or no sister program the cultural front line this week as nations from around the will meet to the United Nations General assembly they had
From a whole host of international artists including ... G are all out [laughter]
The all female international see for great
You are listening to the ... that with a BBC World service with me Nikki ... the wonderful algae reinforce musician ... died on the twelfth of September ... he was known so mixing ... brand of rhyme music western rock and I love his ... of the ... the ...
We've been asking you on the b._b._c. World Service page but your favorite covers actions and here's what you've been saying pull ... says in Sydney says Annie Lennox no more I Love you Kevin pickle
From ... Tennessee says down the ... blue grass cover of Nineteen fifty two Vincent like lightning
And thunder Haynes says I Love ... version of the house of the rising sun such a great voice and very rousing thank you all for being in touch
You
Made a micro size the from ... one of the world's best selling found some like the one

I
Will say we achieved for ... building up a collection of tens of thousands of negative yes people remember ... physical film anyway some as they face have have been brought together in his new book called the one that act to live in Phoenix the last ...
Patti Smith and William F ... will the BBC's Jemma Kenny off micro site how he got started
Or sort of a tricky photographs has a fourteen year old my father in law millions like on
A thirty five millimeter north on camera and our troop of course ... photography school
There was a controlled the next year the music comes from your review and provided me with a template for a direction or wanted me to go on ... ...
With a reader with a lot of work do you spend a lot of luck and wound up your butt all along bar industry if you will arms documentary Martin Lawrence march ordinary more
Which is one of your favorite pictures in the book or is it too hard to decide
To sing image of regard and bamboo shoots go to church with her I'm sure you use hurting number ... who turns out it's one of so many people would respond to in love with his portrait represents to them
