Has more than one job four point nine percent of people in September is the number and it's been pretty steady over the past decade or so even as the actual unemployment rate has been declining so we said marketplace Merrill's to go off this morning with this assignment who are the people in this economy who have more than one job and what's it like for
Matthew Spencer has a whole bunch of jobs
I'm a personal trainer and sues a coach therapist and a fulltime that
He's a single dad lives in California
Los Angeles it's hard to have just one income and one job that pays enough to live Spencer
Is one of many people who worked multiple jobs because they can't afford not to Jody Jordan lives in New Orleans she opened a CrossFit gym a few years ago but he only brings in about twenty five grand a year
Following you ain't as an ally ... they have to pay your belt
So she also worked for a big consulting firm like Spencer she has kids two of them
Never that I get up at ... every morning and I am working on the path that they end up seven or eight o'clock at night
That kind of stress can catch up to you ... lives in a Detroit suburb works three jobs when it feet away and to doing security at pro sports events sometimes he forgets where he's supposed to be
You'll get a call from your faucet eleven in the afternoon they Tyler where are you oh I'm Sorry I work to those yesterday I was All right we'll get it here
Not everyone works a second job out of necessity Arielle ... lives in Queens she's that content producer for the English soccer teams Manchester City and she teaches yoga on the side she started the yoga gang while she was at our last full time job which was demanding and stressful
Always had this other thing that I could courted rely on on
Or that at least could make the cells and the other hours of the day
She still teaching yoga because she loves it plus in New York the extra income doesn't hurt and Mary ... for marketplace
Aren't as promised or comes the unexpected angle on oil most of the time when we talk about energy and how much of the world uses we think transportation right fuel gas all that stuff
Well here's another one chemicals made from oil and gas a report out today finds that petrochemical demand is rising to give us things like synthetic rubber packaging fertilizer also detergents end as marketplaces got tongue reports now from the sustainability desk in the long run chemicals might be a bigger driver of rural ... demand than actual drunk
Everyday world uses Ninety nine million barrels of oil that's according to the international Energy Agency ... says another seven million per day will be demanded by petrochemical users within Thirty years
We're talking about fertilizer tires pharmaceuticals but the world's biggest petrochemical addiction rhymes with elastic here's a analyst ... Fernandez
From Nineteen Seventy even the growth of forgot to grow much faster
Faster even than other bulk materials for construction and infrastructure
Such as cement or more the less well
Over the past generation she says plastics use has been a rich country story but going forward it's emerging economies simply put it's hard to find an alternative when it comes to performance in price and ... what are you just markets says metal glass and paper under perform compared to plastic in a lot of context
Milk drugs just containers for beverages or somebody you're more sophisticated applications that we may be using under the hood of the car
Until now demand for petroleum was mostly for transport driving flying shipping but then the next few decades the ideas for an end to see the scenario where that use speech because of shared vehicles electric cars et cetera however she sees no peak demand for chemicals
That type of person I can only imagine segments of the terms of grows infirm twenty four twenty fifty
There is of course the challenge of plastic disposal we just went the bans are taxes on plastic straws and bags and recycling but the I think those efforts will be far outweighed by new plastic consumption around the world in Washington I'm Scott
Tong for marketplace sleep it stands to reason is big business I mean everybody's got to sleep right on the mattress industry has been getting a little bit well shall we say restless lately there have been bankruptcies and online disruptions as well from W E s a marketplace ... bears has more on the fight over that small piece of real estate where we lay ourselves down at night
I'm In the market for a new mattress and when I started my research I went where most people my age go online and it is overwhelming there are hundreds of mattress started out there that's because
The cost to start an online mattress company is next to zero
That's Jeffrey ... a marketing professor at Carnegie Mellon university
View of the companies that are selling on line actually manufacture their own mattresses what they do is they find a mattress manufacturer somewhere overseas the slot their branding and their logo on there and then they promote the heck out of it as much as they can
And it's working for them says trials Lindsey business professor at the University of buffalo he says the start ups now has about twelve
Detail mattress market what these online companies offer is convenient
Mattress is compressed and vacuum sealed yeah they ship it for free [noise] a pretty easy PC
More often than not it's younger shoppers buying mattresses on line says Ryan trainer president to the international sleep products association on average people replacing mattress every ten years from Nineteen thirty five year old it's more like every six years trainer says that's because
Younger consumers have been kind of condition to replace the phone after a couple of years regardless of whether the phone is still functional or not they wanted to get the latest and greatest bells and whistles with their products and I think they're carrying that over to other durable goods such as mattresses
Not quite the case for me ... more than a decade old and all the online browsing isn't enough I'm Still planning on going to a few stores
And that she was on trend some of the bigger mattress on might start ups are moving into brick and mortar stores so customers can try them out the old fashioned way just as I plan to do ... ... ...
I
You think that's a it was unnecessary concessions that we made
And I'm happy that we did the trade offs of a trade deal but first let's do the numbers
Don't don't drill down a hundred and eighty on this Friday two thirds per cent close to twenty six thousand for forty seven minutes of Ninety One point one tenth Seventy seven ... five hundred slip sixteen points about ... percent twenty eight and eighty five
For five days gone by the Dallas centrally fled the NASDAQ down three point two percent has to be five hundred dollars nine tenths of one percent the old on the trend you're ten year tenure treasury notes guys but on the rise all week as we've been telling you Monday close to three point oh eight percent today three points to three percent you're listening to marketplace
Marketplaces supported by intercom a business messaging platform for automating sales and marketing tasks the intercom ... qualifies leads and schedules demos with him automatically for more than twenty five thousand businesses more an intercom dot com
And biologic Craig bourbon handcrafted in small batches for a full flavored sipping experience forty seven percent alcohol by volume unless you Craig Kentucky straight bourbon whiskey barge town Kentucky think wisely drink wisely and by fracture creating photo acorn gas by printing photos
On glass us made in a carbon neutral factory
More at ... dot com slash marketplace
This is not a boy nine WB you are on the weather W. B. U. R. dot org coming up it's seven o'clock we're going to be rejoining all things considered for the latest on the Brett Kavanaugh story
At eight o'clock WB you are and NPR will present a special broadcast the bread Kevin a vote that's coming up at eight o'clock here and now the point nine WB you are often is NPR
News station [noise] gotta get chilly tonight forties and fifties a sunny day tomorrow in the mid sixties for a high is the w._b. yard were funded by you our listeners city side Subaru with a large inventory of new and free on super ruse
Bottom event all month route sixty and Bill Maher in a city side Subaru dot com boom is say celebrating Ninety years of serving the investment needs of institutional and mutual fund plants worldwide learn more
And move a sales dot com
And in good company by mess mutual making financial education more accessible with classes catering to your goals and value in good company Boston dot com [noise]
This is marketplace I'm ... result we're going to dip back into the labor market here for a little bit because you know jobs and consumer spending and the overall economic growth all of that
But we're going to do back in now through the immigration code back in April of last year President Trump signed an executive order called the buy American and hire American in which he obliged the federal government to among other things and this is a quote rigorously enforce administer the laws governing entry into the United states of workers from abroad
Over the past year and a half that's meant a bunch of changes to immigration policy some big some I'm less big marketplaces we better short has the story
Peter Lynch is twenty eight year old management consultant with two master's degrees were not using lens real name or identifying his employer it could jeopardize his job he wants to grow and his career he wants to move on but he feels trapped
It's really frustrating because I it's very hard for me to transfer job
When emigrated from China he has a skilled worker H. one B. visa the problem is that in order to switch jobs he has to transfer his visa from one employer to another
That process under the Trump Administration now takes six months or longer it used to take a couple of weeks even though he's perfectly qualified potential employers are telling him forget it they don't want to wait six months
Issues and the president might be on the right track
Says Enrique out a trade expert at Singapore management university yeah then you impact that would be a re sharpening of the supply chain is to the detriment of China some companies have already shifted production out of China because of things like increasing labor costs and heavy regulation
The U.S tears and knew us MCAA deal
Have just accelerated the process says Alberto that already with Ethan Shira and associates a firm that advice as foreign investors in China he says about ten percent of his manufacturing clients are starting to set up production lines outside China but are they as President Trump once relocating to the U.S
I don't have a single climbed the loop and moving back to the u._s. or all of them are looking at a um Asia
To countries like Vietnam and Cambodia he says treaty expert Henri ... says nations that have a free trade agreement with the U.S also benefit like a Wall Street is like a Singapore like Korea he says however that any boost to us manufacturers could be short lived
Because China can produce so many things that other countries can't end more cheaply
Michael's accord with the consulting firm Tompkins international says the U.S MCA won't dislodged China from its central role in global trade
China you're going to be a part of the world by grade consumer market in a major exporter
Says the CEOs he advises has no immediate plans to shift production he's telling them to wait and see he says there are no winners in a trade war and he's optimistic that U.S China trade tensions will soon be resolved in Shanghai I'm Janice
We're funded by you our listeners and by the Cancer Center at Beth Israel Deaconess where researchers and physicians believe that imagining a world without cancer isn't their dream it's their job learned about the standard of cure and the idea and sees promising research
At B. I. D. M. C. dot org slash standard of cure
And thankfully Allen combining legal strategy with a vision see to address your legal needs with offices in Boston and throughout the north east online at ... dot com
This is not the point nine WVU are only some islands in the studio with magna ... Jay Clayton and we are in the final minutes of this fund drive this fall fund drive
Which is a very important one to us well they're all important but this one is especially because we have been asking you for contributions for quite some time now and you have come through for us we have a new tally right now and uh Jay Clayton I guess it's a good one
It is a very good one and want to thank everybody who has given so far and in particular
A donor who called and said you know you guys have been working really hard on this is really important to me and to our community she made it very sizable gift and that along with all the other gifts that have been coming in we appreciate them all equally we have Ninety One hundred dollars left to raise
... yep nine that are down hundred dollar right what was it wouldn't last time we spoke it was something like sixty Seventy seven thousand or something like that just want to say thank you to this ... I think you every everybody yeah this person called ah I guess within the past him in a few minutes and um and this is a surprise and it's a very welcome surprise insurers
So here's the situation a magnet really quickly and we've got Seventeen minutes to go Seventeen minutes for you to make a contribution Ninety One hundred dollars again is what's left to raise
We are going to end the fundraiser at seven o'clock as planned us promised
That means you've also got you're Seventeen minister contributing get a chance to win that Subaru so here is the number one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or W. B. U. R. dot
O. R. G. and throughout this fundraiser you know we've been saying give what you can give what's right for you which is why we appreciate and I want to say this over and over and over again we appreciate every one who calls end with the contribution whether it's five dollars whether it be the thousand dollars
That's what's right for you and I think you know oh almost more than the dollar value it's the the sheer act the demonstration that you believe that an informed public with that armed with trustworthy information that's armed with independent information and analysis and informed public
And informed community where you live that is what is vital to the functioning of our democracy and I think people are very powerfully feeling that in this day and age and that's why
Thank you every single person who's called in with their contribution here for ... to W. B. U. R. and if you still haven't there still time one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven is the number to call or
W. B. U. R. dot or you know I think making what you said is very much correct I mean it to 'em it whether it it doesn't matter really what the pledges we appreciate a pledge of the tens of thousands of dollars we appreciate
Tens and fifteens and twenties as well because the sentiment behind it there's a saying the sentiments as we appreciate what you do um you were a singular and what you do and we want you to succeed and apparently this person who was so
Generous just to call in and bring us close to the end of the fund drives successfully a said we want to see that they want to see us make the final goal we will with your help we will ended successfully at seven o'clock one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or W. B. U. R. dot org
So again we're about Fifteen minutes away from the end of the fundraiser Fifteen minutes for you to make a contribution help us raised the remaining seven thousand dollars in our goal we thank you if you've done your part already
If not you want to do it right now because you've also got only Fifteen minutes left to make a contribution when you're eligible to win your choice of across tracker and out back
Up to ... uh twenty Nineteen Subaru from city side Subaru in Belmont we thank them for providing that let's hear from somebody who won the cross truck earlier in a fundraiser a car just like the one that you could win right now here is uh one of our listeners Sylvia Perry
My family is constantly seeking out mountains or the coast we have a basement full of gear which needs to be loaded up every time we go someplace
And for us the super cross trick is just about the most perfect vehicle in which to do those adventures let's super across checked particularly seems like a car meant for outdoors the kind of people who want to get to remote places so it's small and zippy and
He can fit skis or hiking or camping gear and it easily and it's just a joy
Eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven is the number to call if you want to get in on that opportunity to uh when the sweepstakes for this year's twenty twenty Nineteen Subaru that we're offering you get your choice of two if you wanted to if you win
But you know we keep saying you can get it on this sweepstakes you can help W. B. or meet its financial goal for this fundraiser but really I think the most important thing that I Want to say over and over again is
Really all of us collectively have a civic goal we have a civic goal of keeping WB you are an independent strong source of news and information you can trust I think that's something worth leaving ants and something we're calling eight hundred nine zero nine nine
To wait sixty eight hundred dollars to go Thirteen minutes left in the fund drive thanks a lot

Of reports that three quarters present close to twenty six thousand six twenty seven now ducked down a hundred and forty five point one point he present finished in Seventy eight Seventy nine us be five hundred down twenty three eight ten percent twenty nine
Talked about holiday hiring right so we drive over to UPS dropped off three ten percent FedEx like behind seven tenths present those bags has got to get where they're going somehow write checks dogs in a slump today after that Bloomberg hack stories apple or one of the recorder present don't loom or by the way it has never found militia chips in any server it offered
Amazon slumped to ... to ... percent also disputed details of that report you're listening marketplace
Marketplaces supported by criminals HR payroll talent in timekeeping in one unified system designed with the streamlined implementation approach for small and medium size businesses across the globe learn more criminal dot com grownups workforce innovation networks
And by the three ... the software platform for digital transformation using artificial intelligence and I owe team to solve
Previously ensemble business problems
Learned more in the three I O T dot AI and by Drexel University Drexel University is academic design and transformative cooperative education program prepare a visionary leaders to address the challenges of a changing world more at Drexel dot edu slashed ambition can't point to
[noise]
There's been an interesting day in the U.S China economic relationship a big story and Bloomberg Businessweek maybe you saw this about how the Chinese army had hacked into computer hardware used by some of the biggest tech companies in this economy those tech companies by the way the night we should say
Litter vice president Mike Pence said in his speech this morning that he expects joined it to be more proactive than ever in trying to influence us politics and also some fresh understanding what the new NAFTA is going to mean for the global supply chain under the terms of the new deal and yes I noticed technically the U.S MCI
And that successfully knowing that we can stay strong for you you know the interesting thing is we have so much money that we need to raise more than one million dollars in this fund drive
And we're down to the last couple of hundred thousand and it sounds like
That's a lot to raise but every single amount that we've been able to him into a or in so far is because of you in individual pledges whether it be a Fifteen dollar pledge fifty dollar pledges five hundred dollar pledge in some cases uh five thousand dollar pledge
We appreciate what ever you can give to us we just ask you to give something now one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or W. B. U. R. dot or
If you can commit to ten dollars right now in ten dollars a month we can thank you of the year of the New Yorker after seven o'clock about twenty minutes from now it goes back to its Fifteen dollar amount huge will pledge levels so take advantage of that and in fact your ten dollars a month we'll be worst Fifteen dollars for a whole year
Thanks to the match on the table also until seven o'clock
One eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven is the number to call and the website is W. B. U. R. dot O. R.
G. twelve thousand now twelve thousand dollars left you raise in the next twenty minutes or so so help us do it and remember when you do make that pledge will enter you enter sweepstakes because one lucky less there is going to win a twenty ninth team Subaru
You'll get to choose if you're the winner twenty Nineteen cross track for out back and he's had provided by said he said there were any to slash match on the table the or money goes fifty percent further make the call now one eight hundred nine zero nine nine eight seven thank you [noise]
Do do shows up fifty four to eight to ten percent twenty six thousand eight twenty eight and as I got twenty five three times per se at eight thousand twenty five and this will be five hundred a few points that basically fled presented was twenty nine twenty five there
As we talked about Honda and GM and then it best thing to slow down for a quarter percent today GM sped up to end the ten percent on the news banks seeing green at the moment as interest rates rise bakers or make money on what they can charge loans and we are hearing from the c._e._o. of a big bank today
Was there with Jamie damage company did Morgan Chase deposited nine tenths of one percent they found those raised by the way as promised economic optimism means less demand for safe government debt does bond prices fell to you on the ten year treasury note
Rose to a three point one's seven percent you're listening to marketplace
Marketplaces supported by hacker one empowering organizations to build a safer Internet by partnering with trusted hackers
To reduce the risk of a cyber security incident across thousands of websites apps and ate the eyes learn more and hacker one dot com and by carbon I offering data protection solutions for businesses including automatic back up for servers and point protection higher veil ability and disaster recovery and data migration
Learn more carbon night dot com
Standby vantage partners a consulting and training from helping companies to achieve alignment by generating insights and strategies that Dr collaboration innovation and transformation vantage partners dot com
To Seventy Park Avenue in Manhattan is about a six minute walk from the marketplace New York bureau over on third avenue was drizzling last friday when we hit it over to the headquarters of J. P. Morgan Chase security measures took us up to the forty eighth floor where we called our heels for a little bit waiting for Jimmy diamond that's on us we were early
So we had a jet spoke around a little bit lots of sports memorabilia on the shelves business and management books do interestingly enough bake history stuff as well diamond showed up pretty much on time we did the usual chitchat as we got settled talked about how we got into banking he's the son and grandson of stockbrokers by the way and then we got down to it
Do you think um people understand banks and the economy like you understood banks when you were to
Some people are saying banks as a consumer so you know if you've taken a mortgage or have a checking account
If you have a business you need alone if you're a large corporation you have to show equity your debt that you understand don't necessarily in the inner workings of the bank does it matter to me but I I don't think should matter to the customer know with the customer wants to do a good experience and you know good credit card and a good
You have it doesn't matter whether American consumers understand the way the financial system works
But I think ... I think it matters that he was doing a business in general works
So if you don't have a financial system you don't have an economy is just part of his great economy America has the widest deepest most transparent Margaret world's ever seen in total queen private equity venture capital
The formation of business the transparency of our capital murder and no other country to build Kaiser is not even close is kind of
It's kind of a part of the engine that makes us the most prosperous economy in the world
You come to that we just come to that not without some scars right and we'll get to the crisis or a little bit later on but but what do you think um financial sectors role in this society is what is the banks responsibility in this society
Me the most important thing is you help grow a prosperous economy to help
The wealth by which you could take care of your old you are sick you're poor and so I think people sort of stand that you need a healthy banking system my daughter asked me in their financial crisis
You know which of Christ I suppose the card that happens every seven to ten years
I wasn't being facetious I was looking at Nineteen Seventy four Nineteen eighty two Nineteen eighty seven Nineteen Ninety
And ... and one thing that makes me cautious is knowing all that I always always always wanted to run the bank that we can survive anything so that were there in good times and bad times and more more important and bad times for clients
Lots in there and we're going to get to the crisis in a second as I said I Want to talk for a second about I'm a corporate social responsibility which you are and this banker believer you talked about that a little bit
People I I've never believed that the only thing is to maximize shareholder value in fact I don't know any CEOs are that way I think these
Companies wait so sorry how how come everybody thinks all companies just want to maximize
Your ... it just becomes a narrative it gets repeated over and over companies have to do a very good job over an extended period of time to get customers back
Or companies that take care of customers succeed if they rip off customers they don't
To me if you don't take care of your employees you don't take care of your customers you will not have financial success okay and so they're they're all related and taking care of your customers are clients
They want you to be a good committee citizen you were in favor of the president's tax cuts and it was the regulatory minutes I Am and I was in favor of the president's business tax cuts
So separate business from Italy it it is very important if America wants the best economy could possibly have it should have a competitive business tax rate
That is a cynical and on the notion that you have a the best to come in the world with a super high tax rate compare you can better was driving capital and companies and brains overseas that was a mistake
On the individual side I Know I didn't ask for personal tax cuts I didn't need one so that was not our drive things have basically it was like we need a competitive taxes and to be competitive and then you know do we have to do and the other side to help pay for all this all all the things that we need to talk to take care of America
Helped me understand how um regular people see that benefit right what's the benefit to society well there's there's there's
Several benefits guy but if you have
A healthy economy you will have more jobs in more wages and Dutch old directly related to how we doing it just so far ... you know not so good but but part of the reasons you have a ... growth
And when the health built into your tax bill first went through company did raise wages they did they get bonuses right that's mostly they developed some bonuses some Catholics better choose something wages
The real benefit is cumulative overtime as capital is retained and re invested in the United states
Capitol Dr productivity productivity drive growth prior to be drives wages it's acumen effect over time the damage which humans in the past ... see to see it all at once it's just one of the reasons we were two percent growth and not three percent growth and so that we need to have a competitive taxes ever competitive economy
Do you think big companies in this kind of make it a bad rap
Sometimes but I'm not sure it's ... I mean if you look around society has got a bad rap press gets a bad rap politicians get a bad rap lawyers get a bad rap doctors sometimes you get a bad rap or we we've become a bad rap country I mean we wish we were more positive used to be
You know it's funny there's a there's a picture and when you're sitting rooms out there of the bank at night with a really good and then there's a there's a plate underneath with a quote from ... Oregon and says the first thing is character you know for money and property and anything else like sounds like you don't think we're doing so well in that
No no I actually think that a lot of character in the states of America I think we're just hearing at each other for for some reasons I don't fully understand but I think most people are pretty good character but the first is character when Jay Piers Morgan said that it was just referring to
It's not about the models of credit I always feel kind of is you can have all the models you want but character and culture isn't in the models and we have to make those judgments to like
One of the most important things we do is who we do business with if I had on from your clients I'm gonna have a call me back [noise]
[noise] [noise]
[noise] [noise] [laughter] [noise]
We're funded by you our listeners and by can venture organizing special events throughout New England for clients large and small their team is ready to bring your brand to life more it can ventures dot com slash create Hinckley Allen
Longer have a chance to win a trip for two to China and Jay Clayton what a trip it is
It is a Thirteen thousand dollar trip for two and it is put together and offered by National Geographic expeditions and they will customize this trip for you so
They have a nice agenda laid out but if you want to tweak it a bit to spend more time in one place and lessened another they will arrange all of that for you if you win and it's private yelling guy yeah you and the person you take with you in the guide so it's really going to be the experience of a lifetime but as you suddenly so only twenty minutes left now
To get a contribution in the w._b. you are to help protect independent journalism here on your radio end get the chance to win that trip
Here's what you do you call one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or you go to W. B. U. R. dot org
And there are just twenty minutes left a little more than Nineteen Minutes left to get in on this trip for two to China
To make your call right now at one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or at W. B. U. R. dot or you can contribute any amount but we really need to step it up right this moment because we've got exactly two days left in this fundraiser
And uh we have got more than five hundred thousand dollars left to raise to make sure that this is the success that we have the money we need to bring you the news all year long so if you haven't contributed please do so now so that you can also get in on this chance to win a trip to China
Any amount two hundred dollars one hundred dollars ten dollars a month if that works for you if one thousand dollars or something you could do now will be a great time to get us up a little higher so that we are ready to rock these last two days of this fundraiser a one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or W. B. U. R. dot org
Eighteen minutes before we close this offer on the trip to China
We offered the trip to China are offering it today yesterday it was Tuscany prior to that it was the Galapagos because we know the are interested in interesting places we know that you have
A much taste to discriminate case when it comes to the news and that's why you tune into WB you are because of what you get on marketplace on point here and now a MORNING EDITION radio Boston all things considered only a game all the programs that you get at your fingertips you know where your money is going so please
Right now put a dollar value on that and call one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven because on top of all those great programs
And what we have on line at W. B. Y. dot org you have a chance
To go to China if you call in the next Eighteen minutes you get that chance to make sure you do it right now whatever else you're doing just put it off for a couple of minutes so that you can get in on this
Eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven is the number to call it's eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or W. B. U. R. dot org also want to quickly mentioned those eternal radios that I mentioned about ten minutes ago we had eighty of them
We've now got about fifty of them so before those run out you can get one for ten dollar a month contribution that will help protect independent journalism but you'll need to be equipped for that as well because
With only fifty those left those are going to run out probably in a few minutes so one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven is the number to call and the website where you can give is W. B. U. R. dot org [noise]
Listen WVU are really gives me a precise understanding of what's going on and
Very short amount of time I get a little smarter every time I listen to sort of programming that helps me understand myself
And helps me understand
I Want to be even attempt participate in conversations and really can should be she wasn't going on around me and in the ground and and any conscious about what's happening
For all the reasons you rely on WB ... take a minute to support and your station now listeners support makes WVU our whole one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven forgive on line WVU our daughter [noise]
And one of the reasons that you rely on WB you are right now is because we're in a crucial moment for our country or about to select a new Supreme Court justice who will serve
For life on the Supreme Court and we're bringing your reporting every single day and we have been bringing you reporting every single day listening live to the hearings for Brett Kavanaugh bring your reporting from Nina Totenberg from other Washington correspondent for NPR so that you can be informed about what is going on that's what you turn to us for
And we're just taking a couple of minutes right now to turn to you to say please support that with a financial contribution because it costs money to do it
Or that contribution can be any amount that works for you we just need to hear from you right now with just Fifteen minutes left to go until we are done offering a chance to win this trip to China for National Geographic expeditions a trip for two worth over Thirteen thousand dollars and you can be in on it if you call now
Eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven four
The trip to China we hope you'll get your name and before that one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven
Independent journalism now and get entered into all of the remaining price drawings in our fall fundraiser including today's fries and our grand prize your choice of a twenty Nineteen Subaru off track or outback provided by cities like new groove Belmont
Gives now at W. B. U. R. dot org or call one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to wait seven
Mm
The Dow Jones industrial average climbed one hundred twenty two point four tenths present loads of twenty six thousand seven Seventy three
The NASDAQ fell thirty seven point nearly half of ... to land at Seventy nine Ninety nine and the U.S and pay five hundred last one point pretty much on change to end at twenty nine twenty
Three Amazon roads at first and after announcing and decisions booth minimum wage to Fifteen dollars an hour but by the end of the day shares dropped by one and ... percent
Target discounted to present Wal Mart rang up three quarters present online clothing company stitch fix dress down thirty five percent of after the company announced it a customer growth many analysts targets
Bond prices rose the yield on the menu keynote film to three point zero five percent or you're listening to marketplaces and
Marketplaces supported by the three I O T the software platform for digital transformation using artificial intelligence and I always try to solve previously ensemble business problems and
Learn more in the three I O T dot AI
And by personal capital helping over one million people plan for retirement with our online financial tools you can download the personal capital apt to Lincoln see all your accounts in one place to get to know your money in by western digital
Everywhere data lives from personal devices to global organizations western digital fuels the innovation necessary for a brighter smarter future learn more data makes possible dot com western digital and creating environments for data to thrive
This is marketplace I'm Amy Scott in for kind of result after big storms like last month's Hurricane Florence recovery is not only slow but extensive some estimates put the damage at twenty to thirty billion dollars for Florence and a portion of that will go to repairing the beaches affected
The U. S. government spends a lot of money repairing coastal communities after big storms Lisa song is a reporter for ProPublica and wrote about the high cost of beach re nourishment and how that money is divvied up welcome Lisa thanks for having me at least that can you tell me what beach nourishment means
Well it's basically when the government comes in and they pump a lot of sand onto your beach to a fix the damage to the beaches that have occurred to erosion or through storm damage
And the reason why a federal state and local governments will fund this is that without beach nourishment
Some beaches in the U.S particularly on the east coast in the Gulf Coast are just getting smaller every year um they're retreating and so the people who own property on the beach obviously want the beach to stay where it is and those beaches are very important to the tourism economy
How much does all this cost and where's the money coming from
It costs a lot um so many of these projects are mainly funded by the federal government particularly the Army Corps of engineers and FEMA in total cumulatively the U.S has been about nine billion dollars to rebuild beaches since Nineteen twenty three
And when we looked at the north Carolina data after Hurricane Florence we found that in that state a low the federal state and local governments have spent more than eight hundred and twenty eight million dollars cumulatively for those beaches
Wow and what is the argument for spending that money
So the local residents would argue that they need that money to keep their tourism economy going to keep their properties up
And that you know people from all over the country coming enjoy these beaches so the government should help fund their economies the people who benefit the most from these projects are actually the property owners of ocean front properties
So these tend to be the second homes or vacation homes oftentimes they're very large a pricey mansions right along the beach they're the ones who get most of the benefit from these projects
Why is that who decides which beaches to protect and which to leave alone
That this is sort of decided on a case by case basis
Some community is actually find most of this work themselves to the local and county taxes and so in that case the federal government isn't really involved
Uh somewhat scarce for us in many other employers in this region
A were extensively using the age treated guest worker visa program to help me our labor needs and there are some bills that are you know somewhere in Congress right now that would
Make some positive changes to the program but a lot of those efforts have kind of stalled out over the last few months and so we're hopeful that we will see changes to the program as soon as Congress is ready to act on it
Patrick Smith from leftist ranch is good to have you back on the show great thankfully if you have questions about this revised trade relationship between the U.S Canada and Mexico or many trade questions in general we'd love to answer them
Leave us a note at marketplace dot org and there you can read more about economic winners from today's announcement on Wall street today the markets love that trade news detail when we did the numbers [noise]
We're funded by you our listeners and by Loomis sales serving the investment needs of individuals and families managing two hundred and sixty billion dollars of assets since Nineteen twenty six Loomis sales dot com
First republic beg first republic bank is proud to serve the Boston area more information and locations are available at first republic dot com and the BSO guest conductor hunger Lynn to opens the season was works by ... ... talk October eleventh the thirteenth tickets to be a so dot org
... law
Now you know the little uh
Not a a set a in a
Level and I believe you are involved in ... why are we listening to Jerry well because we are giving away a trip to Italy
Really shocked I Know specifically
Tuscany
Eight days in seven nights it's provided by experience plus they will be the guides on your journey you and the person who decided to take with you
But you've got only Nineteen more minutes to get a shot at winning this and you do that by going to W. B. U. R. dot org or giving us a call in and making a contribution to help us bring you all things considered and here now in all the other programs
That are part of your day here on WB you are one eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or W. B. U. R. dot org just Nineteen Minutes to go
One eight hundred Ninety nine nine to a seven W. B. U. R. dot org
So there's a trip to Tuscany there's all the news that you cannot and someone to talk about the item on the table and I'm looking around and this half eaten tuna sandwich and soda as I said I ... mostly gone Diet Coke we've got everything
Must be it because it can't be like you understand what it is a lunch box and is it Ninety [laughter] WB you are as it looks like radio
And how what is this going for a ten dollars a month contribution that you know I heard you on Saturday at talking about this a better deal than that you understand what you're saying well you could put the tuna sandwich you know
I heard you guys talking about this and you were you at a loss as to what adults would do it is yeah I Would anybody have a lunch lots of things for your trip to tough it in or you put your lunch in it shocking not cheaply your lunch and it
It really is cute it looks like a radio is Ninety nine WVU art the little red mark
... your kids are going to look at this and say what's that
Radio thing I mean that's what it is it's very very to put their cell phone for ten dollars a month ago that's the item on the table that
Less than ... no just over Fifteen minutes to get your name in
For that trip for two to Tuscany we're going to be giving away a trip for two people for a day seven nights includes round trip airfare and lots of amazing things H in theaters cathedrals a cycling along ridges overlooking farmlands and Cyprus trees and olive groves
And lots and lots of unbelievable yeah the ... file has a fake cassette
[laughter] that's one of the ... [laughter] I'm holding out for the eight track version eight hundred nine zero nine
Nine to a seven or W. B. U. R. dot org ... we need to hear from you right now and next sixteen minutes literally if you want to get a chance to win the trip to Tuscany when you make your contribution to W. B. U. R. let's return one more time to Maria Elena price she will tell you a way better than any of us goods
That are riding a bicycle through Tuscany is a great way to see this part of the world
Think definitely that's the beauty of cycling my bike you feel like you've entered day to day life because you're going through town that you know don't generally see tourists go through them because they're off the main rotor off the main train station they don't have the museum they don't have a really important cathedrals or anything like that but you stopped in the grocery store
Have your morning coffee after your for five or ten miles of your bike ride and
It's a really a nice way to the day to day life everyday life that is true on any bike to work but I think what's specially when you're such a well known region it's refreshing when you end up realizing that there's more than just floored and there's more than just kind of some of the other highlighted pieces
So you're stopping the grocery store to get your lunch and you're going to need what
I see you know all your other I'm tweeting out the picture of the w._b. or lunch box which is a separate from the chip to Tuscany listen you win that chick the chip to destiny you are not guaranteed a lunchtime now that's right but if you aren't dollars a month on ... and it can be a cultural moment with your kids go new museum
Cars on the back and has the back of a radio in the front the front of radio with the speaker and you know a dial in a cassette player and on the back it has this thing and you can explain to your kids with an antenna is
What a radio is or what a radio on water lunch but [laughter] hundreds she's nine Ridgewood possibility it is nine zero nine Ninety seven I was hearing it's accurate I think it was sharing thing I could put my changing it [noise]
No [laughter] sixty minutes of fourteen minutes to go forward you ready to go
One eight hundred nine zero nine nine to eight seven or W. B. U. R. dot or if this offer closes at seven o'clock so please make the phone call right now pledged whatever you can afford to pledge whatever you think it'll be worth worth to you base it on maybe the time you listen and how often you miss him we really appreciate it was for it thank you very much [noise]

Now Jones industrial average was one hundred and Ninety two points nearly three quarters of a percent to lose that twenty six thousand singing with you on that long nine points and kind of a percent to finish at ... thirty seven then
Yes the unwritten found ten points represent to end that twenty nine twenty four we talked about that new trade deal with Canada that among other things would give us an dairy farmers and reader access to the Canadian marking
Us very giant deemed foods fortified nearly one percent and USB life way foods which makes dairy based care products drank up
More than ten percent and we talked about that Tesla up and down right powered in part by the eating habits of its founder Ilan must today when all that news we mentioned about mosque settlement with the SEC that allows him to stay on a CEO Catholic charged up more than Seventeen percent
Bonds now Neal yield on the ten year to you know we're re point oh eight percent you're listening to marketplace marketplaces
Supported by guideline four oh one K. over
Forty five hundred small businesses have chosen guidelines for its modern retirement plan that is designed to reduce the last in burden I'm offering a four O. one K. so companies can focus on their business and employees
Guideline four O. one K. dot com and buy fresh works customer engagement software building with the end user in mind fresh words is used by more than one hundred and fifty thousand companies around the world for their see Haram and I teach service software
Fresh works dot com and ... online test prep for the ACT SAT G. R. E. N. G. mat that's designed to improve scores students can get video lessons practiced questions and experts support on line perhaps Margot far and enjoy the ride at ... dot com
General Electric told investors today that its CEO ... out after only about a year on the job
The company also said to me that profit forecast this year frankly think not great AT T which raises the question what is the role of industrial conglomerate in today's economy anyway marketplaces ... has that one
General Electric is a far cry from the company Thomas Edison cofounded back in the Eighteen nineties today G. E. makes aircraft engines equipment for oil and gas production in medical imaging among many other things perhaps too many things as John Joseph he teaches management at the University of California Irvine
It is a time when the industrial conglomerate is gone
He says competition and market conditions change very quickly today are going to be have to react on a dime
Typically big industrial conglomerates one does not think of being nimble
... been trying to focus the firm's sold insurance out for ... years ago it rained it swimming business after heavy losses during the financial crisis Lawrence whites economics professor at NYU says these focused trims to ebb and flow well gee is trying to get smaller
Amazon is going in the opposite direction
He's right Amazon got grocery stores Web services and is talking about getting into health care all a far cry from its original idea of just me when you books with John juice at UC Irvine argues that Amazon is different because it's leveraging a central platform even though it appears to be spread out it's more focused than it see
